text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  FEB.  5.  10  OUR  MI  IsSe:tatiEßS  AND  THE  PUBLIC.  It  is  tree  intention  of  the  Prcprietors  of  the  National  Register  to  present  their  Subscribers  and  the  Public  in  general  with  a  COMPO.ETE  SERIES  OF  PORTRAITS  of  the  whole  of  the  MALE  of  the  ROYAL  FAMILY,  from  Paintings  by  the  most  distinguished  Masters,  in  the  same  splendid  and  beautiful  manner  as  thePoRTRAir  of  his  Al  AJCSTir  s  which  was  distributed  GRATIS  ON  SUNDAY  LAST.  The  choice  and  first  impressions  of  -Oie  Plates  will  be,  of  course,  selected  for  the  Subscribers  to  this  Paper  ;  therefore  early  applications  will  secure  the  most  valuable  Portraits.  The  National  Register  will  contain  a  Bto-  GRAPH  Y  OF  TUE  PRINCES,  by  ON  ESIMUS;  a  task  which  the  Proprietors  have  happily  prevailed  upon  him  to  undertake,  and  which  will  - STYLE=superscript  be  regularly  accomplished  so  as  to  accompany  the  several  Portraits  in  succession.  THE  LIKEN  i:ss  or  TII  E  PRINCE  OF  WALGS  will  be  ready  for  delivery  on  Sunday  next,  February  11th.  The  object  of  the  Proprietors  is  to  put  the  British  Commu Community  nity Community  in  possession  of  faithful  Portraits  and  Characters  of  the  principal  Personages  of  the  ILLUSTRIOUS  HOUSE  OF  BRUNSWICK  ;  but  as  their.loyal  intentions  cannot  be  accom accomplished  plished accomplished  with  their  confined  resources,  they  have  resolved,  though  still  abandoning  all  idea  of  profit,  to  charge  Sixpence  for  each  impression,  to  those  who  become  Subscribers  or  purchase  the  National  Register.  Immediate  orders  should  be  sent  to  the  Office,  No.  11,  Catherine-street,  Strand,  or  given  to  the  News.  men,  Booksellers,  or  Clerks  of  the  Roads,  so  that  the  Proprietors  may  be  able  to  estimate  the  number  of  is  likely  to  be  wanted.  This  Series  will  form  a  Set  of  Pictures  of  the  Illustrious  House  of  Brunswick,  worthy  the  Drawing  Room  or  the  Ca Cabinet,  binet, Cabinet,  and  will  render  the  National  Regibter  particularly  va valuable,  luable, valuable,  as  presenting  the  only  complete  Set  of  the  Royal  Family  extant.  t  .4  Chronological  Table  of  the  Events  of  the  past  Year,  tope tope-21ter  21ter tope-21ter  with  a  Copious  index,  to  complete  the  First  'Volume  of  this  Paper,  Ia  now  ready  for  delivery,  which  may  be  had  of  all  the  Newsmen  and  ISoultsellers  throughout  the  United  Kingdom.  Price  Eight-pence.  POPULAR  I/ILEAC/MRS  in  nur  next.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  Lontou,  SUNDAY,  FEBRUARY  5,  1809.  POLITIC4L  OP  THE  WEEK.  Wes  are  sorry  to  state,  that  positive  advices  have  been  received  of  the  invasion  of  Portugal  by  a  considerable  French  force,  and  that  all  the  British  were  preparing  to  leave  that  country,  as  also  the  principal  Portuguese  fami families.  lies. families.  Au  observation,  supremely  true,  forces  itself  on  our  minds  on  this  occasion,  that  falsehood  is  sooner  or  later  detected,  sophistry  exposed,  and  bluudcrs  followed  by  dis disgrace  grace disgrace  and  punishment.  Our  readers  cannot  but  remember,  that  the  reasons  assigned  for  acceding  to  the  Armistice  and  Convention  of  Ciutra,  consisted  in  the  almost  impreg impregnable  nable impregnable  strength  of  the  works  which  JUNOT  had  thrown  up  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Lisbon.  Have  these  works  been  demolished  ?  ur  have  they  vanished  into  air  ?  We  gave  no  .credit,  at  the  time  the  merits  of  the  Cintra  busi business  ness business  were  the  subject  of  discussion,  to  the  existence  of  these  fortified  positions;  and  we  founded  our  disbelief  on  the  probability  that  JUNOT  would  not  have  so  easily  consented  to  their  evacuation,  had  they  been  so  very  tenable  as  the  Conventionists,  their  friends,  and  dependants  had  repre represented  sented represented  them.  But  a  short  time  will  prove  the  truth  or  fallacy  of  the  conjecture  we  then  hazarded,  We  sincerely  wash  it  wore  uufouhded•  We.  would  willingly  suhmit  to  /;  95  .  _  the  mortification  . STYLE=superscript  of  being  detected  .an  au  erroneous  and  precipitate  conclusion,  if  future  occurrencas  sbew  the  pos possibility  sibility possibility  of  our  troops  being  able  to  maintain  themselves  in  these  positions  WI  the  arrival  of  reinforcements,  or  a  change  of  fortune,  in  favour  of  the  patriotic  Spaniards,  should  compel  the  enemy  once  more  to  evacuate  the  coun country.  try. country.  But  these  arc  pious  wishes  we  dare  not  indulge  in  ;  and  future  events,  we  arc  much  inclined  to  apprehend,  will  too  strongly  demonstrate  that  the  cries  of  indiguatioef  repeated  from  one  extremity  of  the  Empire  to  another,  were  not  only  just,  but  even  too  moderate,  considering  the  disgrace  N%  e  sustained,  and  the  pernicious  tendency  it  had  to  sow  discontent  among  the  Portuguese,  and  to  render  them  indifferent  to  the  liberation  of  their  country.  A  false  and  dangerous  opinion  begins  to  gain  ground,  fostered,  as  usual,  by  party  spirit,  and  re-echoed  by  hire hireling  ling hireling  writers,—that  Great  Britain  should  make  no  etiost  to  favour  of  the  Continent,  unless  the  natives  Isere  to  make  corresponding  exertions  and  sacrifices  in  support  of  their  independence.  To  lay  this  down  as  a  principle,  would  be  the  most  dangerous  maxim  we  could  adopt  in  pol  t  cal  reasoning,  or  in  practical  government.  Tee  moment  we  take  it  as  the  rule  of  our  conduct,  we  re renounce,  nounce, renounce,  for  ever,  every  hope  of  curtailing  the  present  alarming  preponderance  of  the  enemy,  and  abandon  every  wish  of  resisting  his  future  cucroachments.  thing  is  more  flattering  in  Pre  present  depraved  state  of  . STYLE=superscript  society,  and  in  the  universal  lack  of  public  spirit,  than  ge general  neral general  maxims,  which  gratify  our  selfishness  and  love  of  ease.  individuals  are  unwilling  to  meet  the  great  sacrifices.  which  a  system  of  enesgetic  policy  imposes  on  the  comma commanity  nity commanity  ;  and,  notnithstanding  their  conviction  of  its  advan advan'l  'l advan'l  tages,  cheerfully  abandon  it  iu  favour  of  their  effesnittan.fa  and  avarice.  It  must  be  recollected,  at  the  same  time,  and  constantly  repeated,  that  we  are  not  fighting  for  the  Portuguese  and  Spaniards  exclusively  :—W'c  arc  contending  for  our  own  safety,  our  own  rights,  our  own  freedom;  in  the  present  state  of  mankind  we  would  be*  afraid  to  repeat,—ter  our  own  glory.  and  pre-eminence.  These  words  are  like  the  voice  crying  in  the  desert,  they  are  spent  on  trees  and  Jocks,—they  can  extract  no  correspondiug  sound  from  the  cold,  unfeeling  hearts  of  the  present  generation.  Let  us,  however,  without  a  single  particle  of  sensibility  fur  the  sufferings  of  the  Spaniards,  or  of  abhorrence  foe  the  atrocity  of  the  aggression,  make  some  efforts  to  prevent  the  french  from  obtaining  undisputed  possession  of  the  Penin Peninsula  sula Peninsula  ;  to  occupy  his  attention  in  such  a  manner,  that  it  be  not  solely  directed  to  the  invasion  of  our  own  shores.  part  iculas  nose  of  Ireland.  If  the  natives  of  Spain  do  Rot  possess  ail  the  energy  and  enthusiasm  we  were  led  to  expect,  tney  have  displayed  more  of  both  than  could  reasonably  be  hoped  for  flint)  a  people,  who,  for  two  centuries,  had  been  oppressed  by  the  most  galling  and  odious  despotism.  They  arc  still  in  arms;  their  detestation  of  their  invaders  has  not  abated  ;  they  have  the  sublime  courage  to  cliug  fast  to  the  last  plank  of  their  sinking  country  ;,  they  have  manifested  no  inclination  as  yet  to  purchase-  safety  vii.tla  dishonour;  and  the  correspondence  of  the  traitor  MonLa„  describing  the  heroism  of  the  people  of  Madrid,  notwith.  standing  the  treachery  of  their  lead,ms,  and  the  immense  force  of  the  enemy,  is  sufficient  to  refute  the  despicable despicablefalsehoods  falsehoods despicablefalsehoods  that  have  been  lately  published  of  that  people.  '  W!:0  dues  not  recollect  the  generous  enthusiasm  which  inspired  the  people  of  this  country,  when  the  first  account*  of  Spanish  resistance  were  conveyed  to  our  shores.  When  nas  it  evaporated  ?  Oh  I  we  must  not  be  so  eager.  to  dig..  over  a  mote  in  our  neighbdfir's  eye,  when  we  have  a  beam  in  our  own  I  We  scoff  at,  we  proclaim  aloud  the  relaxa.  tion  of  Spanish  energy,  with  an  intention,  no  donbt,  -to  palliate  our  own  apathy.  Even  Ministers  seem  to  despond.  Their  silence  is  alarming.  The  Taunted  reparations  for  a  formidable  expedition  have  terminates,  it  seems,  in  orders  for  the  transports  to  go  round  to  Chatham.  We  were  so  proud  of  the  spirit  which  began  to  manifest  itself  some  months  ago;  we  hailed  it  as  the  revival  of  04  ye-,  C STYLE=superscript  EP  P15_TB00015 ~  cars  wau  to  ‘eupive**  Al•ae%••  1  w  %•-•■••y•  , STYLE=superscript  ..-  ••••-  -  •  •--  •  ---•---  ---  ---  --  ---  --  rs-  -J  t  Paper,  is  now  ready  for  delivery,  which  may  be  had  of STYLE=superscript  a  ll STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  voice  crying  in  L STYLE=superscript  the  desert,  they  are  spent  on  trees  and  Newsmen  and  Booksellers  throughout  the  United  Kingdom.  Jocks,—they  can  extract  no  correspontliug  sound  from  the  Price  Eight-pence.  .  cold,  unfeeling  hearts  of  the  present  generation.  Let  us,  POPULAR  PREACIIERS  in  nor  next.  however,  without  a  single  particle  of  sensibility  fur  the  .  sufferings  of  the  Spaniards,  or  of  abhorrence  for  Use  THE  NATIONAL  itEGIS'I.ER.  atrocity  of  the  aggression,  make  some  efforts  to  prevent  the  french  from  obtaining  undisputed  possession  of  the  Peniu-  ssursamamagr....  '-  - STYLE=superscript  '-'  11 STYLE=superscript  -7 STYLE=superscript  -  - STYLE=superscript  -'*&#34;'  sula  ;to  occupy  his  attention  in  such  a  manner,  that  it  be  not  LonDott,  solely  directed  to  the  invasion  of  our  own  shores.  partii;ulas  ly  hose  of  Ireland.  If  the  natives  of  Spain  do  not  possess  if  ail  the  energy  and  enthusiasm  we  were  led  to  expect,  have  displayed  more  of  both  than  could  reasonably  1  SUNDAY,  FEBRUARY  5, STYLE=superscript  1809 STYLE=superscript  .  ~ STYLE=superscript  1j  POLITIC4L  BVII:NTS  of  THE  WEEK.  he  hoped  for  fioin  a  people,  who,  for  two  centuries,  had  1  been  oppressed  by  the  most  galling  and  odious  despotism.  1  Chet'  arc  still  in  arms;  their  detestation  of  their  invaders  +!-  We  are  sorry  to  state,  that  positive  advices  have  bee  n STYLE=superscript  has  not  united  ;  they  have  the  sublime  courage  to  chug  :4  I  received  of  the  invasion  of  Portugal  by  a  considerable  fast  to  the  last  plank  of  their  sinking  country  ;,  they  hale  French  force,  and  that  all  the  British  were  preparing  to  manifested  ..  no  inclination  as  yet  to  purchase  safety  wialla  leave  that  country,  as  also  the  principa  l STYLE=superscript  P  ortu STYLE=superscript  g  uese STYLE=superscript  lami- STYLE=superscript  dishonour;  snonour  ;  and  the  correspondence  of  the  traitor  Ma  oLt,  lies.  Au  observation,  s  upremely  true,  forces  itself  on  our  describing  the  heroism  of  the  people  of  Madrid  , STYLE=superscript  notwitb...  ..  minds  on  this  occasion,  that  •falsehood  is  sooner  or  later  standing  the  treachery  of  their  leaders,  and  the  immense  detected,  sophistry  exposed,  and  bluudcrs  followed  by  dis-  force  of  the  enemy,  is  sufficient  to  refute  the  despicable-  grace  and  punishment.  Our  readers  cannot  but  remember,  falsehoods  that  have  been  lately  published  of  that  people.  that  the  reasons  assigned  for  acceding  to  the  Armistice  ,  Iv  .  ..:0  dots  not  recollect  the  generous  enthusiasm  which  and  Convention  of  Ciutra,  consisted  in  the  almost  iinpreg-  i_n  e  si  ,;  are  .  d  ..:  t  s  h  h  e  peo  ple  of  this  country,  when  the  fi  rst  account*  1  .  Liable  strength  of  the  works  which  JUNOT  had  thrown  up  resis  tance  were  conveyed  to  our  shores.  When  •  in  the  neimhhourhood  of  Lisbon.  have  these  works  1 STYLE=superscript  '  1 STYLE=superscript  ~.  nas  it  evaporated  ?  Oh  I  we  must  not  be  so  eager  to  dig..  been  demolished  ?ur  have  they  vanished  into  air  ?  We  over  a  mote  in  our  ncighbOiir's  eye,  when  we  have  a  beam  gave  no  -credit,  at  the  time  the  merits  of  the  Ciutra  bust-  in  our  own  I  We  scoff  at,  we  proclaim  aloud  the  relaxa.  I  1  uess  were  the  subject  of  discussion,  to  the  existence  of  these  t  p  i  ai  ol  i  i  .  of  Spanish  energy,  with  an  intention,  no  doubt,  -to  fortified  positions;  and  we  founded  ou  r STYLE=superscript  disbelief STYLE=superscript  on STYLE=superscript  th STYLE=superscript  e STYLE=superscript  lat  e  our  own  apathy.  Even  Ministers  seem  to  despond.  probability  that  JIINOT  would  not  have  so  easily  consented  , STYLE=superscript  Choir  silence  is  alarming.  The  Taunted  reparations,  to  their  evacuation,  had  they  been  so  very  tenable  as  the  fur  a  formidable  expedition  have  terminated,  it  seems,  Conventionists,  their  friends,  and  dependants  had  reprc-  in  orders  for  the  transports  to  go  round  to  Chatham.  We  seated  them.  But  a  short  time  will  prove  the  truth  or  were  so  proud  of  the  spirit  which  began  to  manifest  itself  fallacy  of  the  conjecture  we  then  hazarded,  We  sincerely  some  months  ago;  we  hailed  it  as  the  revival  of  thit  ye-,  Wash  al  wore  oufoundedo  We.  would  willingly  suhmit  to  .  .  .ijr"
