text
"HOUSE  OF  COMMQNS.  ?VERSO*  1f,3  N.  19,  1301  Mr.  IZI  ARNIE,  the  Deputy  Usher  of  the  Black  clod,  sum.  Mooed  the  House  to  attend  in  the  House  of  Peers.  to  hear  the  '  Lords  Commissioners  deliver  a  speech  by  order  of  his  Majesty,.  .  for  opening  the  Session  .  of  Parliament.  THE  COMMISSIONER'  SPEECH•  The  SPEAKER  informed  the  Honse.that  be  had  been  in  the  House  of  Peers,  n  here  his  Majesty's  Commission  wit•  read  for  appointing  Commissioners  for  opening  the  Session.  alci  that  the  Lord  Chancellor  matle  a  speech  accordingly.  nod  to  prevent.  mistakes  he  procureil  copy,  (far  which  see  the  Itaa4i  of  Lords.)  •  7  •  •  Mr.  ROBIN  som,  rose  to  move  an  Address,  cs  iir  eg  l  ive  of  th  e  confidence  of  the  Hour,  and  its  determination  to  support  his  Majesty  in  the  present  tsar.  The  leading  topic,  ht  oho  ' STYLE=superscript  served,  to  which  the  Speech  referred,  was  the  state  of  Spain  ;  and  here  surely,  whoever  looked  to  the  aiaal  jPai  of  Quit  coup,.  try,  and  the  circumstances  which  led  to  a  connection  with  this,  would  not  be  indisposed  to  agree,  that  the  circumstances  in  which  we  stood,  pointed  out  the  necessity  of  reducing  into  prac practical  tical practical  effect  the  prosecuting  of  the  •  war  with  ,vignur,  because  vigorous  hostilities  were  oiore  likely  to  procureisnmediate  , STYLE=superscript  and  permanent  peace,  than  a  temporising  systPm  of  warfare.  —The  cause  of.  Spain  has  lost  none  of  the  interest  whit*  it  first  excited  in  the  breast  of  his  Itilajesty,.  and  to  abandon  he;  now  would  be  an  act  of  dishonour,  and  to  make  peace  its  pro,  posed  by  relinquishing  her  cause,  would  reader  toghtod  unwor unworthy  thy unworthy  and  iuestpable  of  ett  i  Vying  the  toiloolk  .  of  a  peace,  which  would  at  •  the  best  be  hot.  fidiaeleaa.  :MfbiA  be  heard-  of  the  meeting  of  Alexander  and  Bonaparte  at  giirustli,  he.  never  ca ca-1  -1 ca-1  terntined  the  - STYLE=superscript  least  idea  WO  the  interVieW  would  terroiantela  Treace  ;  and  w  hen  the  salutadonment  of  Spain  seas  the  price,  .his  Majesty  had  certainly.  .no  •other  alternative  JAIL  to  reject  the  proposition...  The  .  Speech  alluded  to,st  treaty  of  j.eace  about  to  be  ratified  between  his  Mqjesty  nod  the  Spanish  Goveinment.;  but  on  this  'subject  be  would  notinake,  any  comment,  beCanse  the  treaty  was  hot.  yetstrbmitreeto  Patlitiment.  The  -Merits  of  the.action  which  took  place  at  Vintierit  spoke  for  theinselves„  and  tilers  not•  to  be  surpassed  by  any  tbqt  nes.  stenatitied  t.4s  British  terms  f  That  action  required  no.othereplogy  than  what,  wail  0.  milted  by  the  feeling  and-  entbils'irissn  .of  tke  country,,  lkni  t  h  doubtless  it  experienced  ranch  disanpuintAant  front  some  of  the  articles  of  the  Armistices.  and  the  CouveutioU.  that  followed.  —  Ile  next  ad  railed  to  the  situation  of  he.  f  Sweden,  whpse  attachment  to  Great  britain,  anil:persitte  the  'War,  drew  down  upon  him  the  yea...stance  of  8  4  neigh  IT  power,  altd  he  had  no  doubt  but  that.  the  House  tvvtild  red!f  hint  Abut  nssist nssistonce  once nssistonce  which  may  be  wanted.  U.pcia  tbe.topie  of'  the:  reventies.of  the  country,  he  congratulatedtheltouse  ootlte  Copiatunication  made  in  the  Speech.  ,;  •  •  •  Mr.  LEsnus  GTON,  sun.  .  potted  the  Address..  Mr.  PoX  SON  HY  We  are  told  in  the  Speeds,  that  ‘.'t  with without  out without  a  vigorous  and  persevering•  exertion,  there  is  no  hope  of.ler.  initiating  the  war•  safely  nod  honotivably.”  - STYLE=superscript  .  That  I.  rutty  admit,  and  I  am  confident  of  the  _paternal  care.  which  his  Majesty  per personally  sonally personally  feetsfor  the  honour  of  the  conntrx  :T  he  history  Ihe  co  au au•  • au•  try,  since  it  acquired  a  station  among  powerful  whines  t  ranuo  t  pro produce  duce produce  m  i  c  hi  n  ytances  o  f  weakness,  negligence,  vaci  I  lat  lust,  nod  n  ant  of  judgment  in  her  councils,  as  have  occurred  during  site  abort  pe period  riod period  his  Majesty's  present  advisers  have  conducted  the  affairs  of  Government.  .According  to  the  Treaty,  we  here  hisund  too  furnish  liweden  with  auxiliary  troops  to  repel  the  attacks  of  the  enemy,  as  well  as  to  furnish  a  subsidy  to  stimulate  the  exertions  of  that  kingdom.  A  powerful  expetlitiOn  Was  iu  conieqUeucr  fitted  nut  from  this  country,.  nod  arrived  upon  the  coast  dif  .iwedett;.hott  by  spmetmaceountabiemisusuierstanding,  chi  Commander  PO  troops  ordered  . STYLE=superscript  his  army  to  return  without  landing  i  Soon  l  bearing  the  atietny  fire  Cskot;  whilst  he  *Motif  wos  aid,  rs:tlit"
