text
"TIIE  NATIONAL  REGISTVR.  how  any  transaction  of  the  Duke  of  York  with  that  man,  be  made  to  press  upon  the  character  of  his  Royal  Highness.  th  regard  to  the  case  of  Major  Turner,  the  Gentleman  who  ,bed  to  resign,  but  who•was  prevented  for  a  time  by  the  inter-  Tence  of  a  lady  of  the  name  of  Sutherland,  I  shall  make  hut  a  w  observations.  What  is  the  consequence  of  Mrs.  Sutherland's  aresentations  - STYLE=superscript  of  Major  Turner?  An  inquiry  is  made  into  the  rcumstances  to  which  her  letter  alludes;  his  Colonel,  Lieut.  , STYLE=superscript  !n.  Cartwright,  the  proper  person  to  whom  an  application  for  ormation  in  such  a  case  is  to  be  made,  clears  his  character.  id  immediately  afterwards  his  resignation  is  accepted.  Col.  'Won's  evidence  goes  to  show,  that  had  the  letter  been  anom-  Low,  the  very  same  course  would  have  been  adopted.  From  ly  evidence  that  has  been  produced  to  substantiate  the  charge  dative  to  Samuel  Carter,  it  is  impossible  for  the  House  to  ea-  Ttain  any  other  view  of  the  case,  than  that  it  was  an  act  of  mane  and  attentive  consideration  on  the  part  of  the  Com Comalder  alder Comalder  in  Chief  towards  the  orphan  son  - STYLE=superscript  of  a  meritorious  officer,  'ho  had  lost  his  life  in  the  service  of  his  country.  But  allowing  )at  the  commission  was  granted  through  the  application  of  Mrs.  iarke,  could  any  one  . STYLE=superscript  condemn  the  Duke  fora  compliance  with  a  request  which  was  not  merely  innocent,  but  honourable  to  her  hu humnity.  mnity. humnity.  I  cannot  help  expressing  my  opinion,  whether  the  facts  'ere  so  or  no,  that  this  part  of  Mrs.  Clarke's  testimony  did  her  ere ereit  it ereit  (  Mar  !  Ilear  !  )  Yet  it  deserves  to  be  observed,  that  the  first  pplication  for  a  commission  for  Samuel  Carter  was  in  1801.  'he  application  was  not  then  acceded  to,  and  the  reason  might  probably  have  been  this,  that  a  great  reduction  was  then  taking  place  in  the  army,  and  there  were  few  commissions  to  dispose  of.  The  letters  of  the  young  man  abundantly  show  that  he  was  known  to  the  Duke  of  York.  The  paragraph  in  his  Royal  Highness's  letter  which  relates  to  General  Clavering,  Is,  Clavering  is  mistaken,  Mg  Angel,  in  thinking  that  any  new  regiments  are  to  be  raised,  only  second  battalions  to  the  existing  corps;  you  had  better  therefore  sell  him  so,  and  that  you  were  sure  there  would  be  no  use  in  applying  for  It  appears  clear  to  me  that  Mrs.  Clarke  must  have  been  playing  Waite  same  game  upon  General  Clavering,  that  she  had  been  playing  off  upon  so  .many  other  people,  and  what  the  Duke  wrote  to  her  appears  merely  to  be  in  answer  to  some  harmless  and  unimportant•  ques questions,  tions, questions,  which,  considering  the  sort  of  intimacy  that  subsisted  be between  tween between  them,  it  is  not  very  surprising  she  should  have  asked.  —  The  introduction  of  Dr.  O'Meara  to  his  Royal  highness,  who  procured  him  the  honour  to  preach  before  his  . STYLE=superscript  Majesty,  is  cer certainly  tainly certainly  a  circumstance  extremely  to  be  regretted  ;  but  it  is  -a  subject  that  has  no  relation  to  the  inquiry  now  before  the'  House.  I  cannot  help  remarking  upon  one  peculiarly  strong  feature  of  Mrs.  Clarke's  evidence,  where  she  appears  to  me  to  be  contradicted  by  the  moFt  decisive  testimony.  She  is  asked  from  time  to  time,  Was  the  Duke  of  York  privy  to  your  receiv receiving  ing receiving  money  from  officers  to  prOcure  them  promotion  To  this  She  answers--  -Yes,  I  never  concealed  any  thing  from  his  Royal  Highness.  But  how  does  this  appear  from  her  own  letters  found  in  possession  of  Captain  Huxley  Sandon  ?  There  is  an  anxiety  throughout  the  whole,  that  it  should  not  he  known  to  the  Duke  that  she  was  any  way  connected  with  Santlon;  and  this  I  can  ac account  count account  for  in  no  other  way,  than  by  supposing  she  was  afraid  lest  Otis  highness  should  discover  her  practices.  The  Right  lion.  Gentleman  then  went  into  a  minute  examination  of  the  probable  expenditure  at  Gloucester-place,  during  the  period  that  Mrs.  Clarke  was  living  there  under  the  protection  of  the  Du  ke STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  York,  and  contended,  that  the  sums  he  furnished  her  were  suf sufficient  ficient sufficient  to  cover  the  expenses  of  that  establishment,  without  there  being  any  necessity  for  Mrs.  Clarke  to  have  had-  recourse  to  cor corrupt  rupt corrupt  and  criminal  means  to  raise  supplies.  Af!er  Commenting  at  some  length  upon  the  evidence  relative  to  the  service  of  plate  purchased  of  Parker  and  Birket,  he  put  it  strongly  to  the  House,  whether  it  was.  possible  that  the  Duke  of  York,  with  the  patronage  of  preferments  to  the  amount  of  near  400,0001.  a  year  in  his  disposal,  could  have  connived  at  or  been  concerned  in  the  paltry  criminal  traffic  to  which  Mrs.  Clarke  had  so  falsely  at attached  tached attached  his  name.  The  Right  Hon.  Gentleman  next  touched  upon  the  contradictions  of  Mrs..Favery,  who  he  had  no  doubt  was  the  half-sister  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  though  that  fact  had  not  come  out  in  evidence.  «  To  oppose  the  testimony  of  such  witnesses  as  said  tite  Right  lion.  Gentleman  let  us  consider  who  are  the  persons,  with  the  exception  of  this  abandoned  woman,  who  have  enjoyed  most  of  the  confidence  of  his  Royal  Highness.  Characters  like  lien.  Calvert,  Colonel  Gordon,  and  many  others,  went  to  ,exempt  ;  his  Royal  Highness  from  every  insinuation  of  undue  and  improper  influence.  The  persons  I  have  mentioned  cannot  be  deetne  likely  to  have  sulfered  any  circumstances  and  practices  of  corruhition,  or  even  of  negligence,  to  have  passed  unnoticed  under  their  eyes.  When  I  consider  all  these  graml  and  impressive  points,  1  cannot  reconcile  myself  to  the  opinion  that  the  House  will  not  come  to  an  immediate  decision  on  the  nature  and  - STYLE=superscript  merits  of  the  charges  preferred  against  the  Duke  of  Y  ork.  t  may  therefore  pm:s  upon  t  hem  the  necessity  of  a  judgment  both  prompt  and  d.!cisive.  The  Right  lion.  Geutle Geutleman,  man, Geutleman,  after  strongly  urging  the  Bout  to  come  to  a  decided  judg judgment  ment judgment  on  the  charges,  concluded  with  toovitig  the  following  reso.  lotion,  That  charge  , STYLE=superscript  hay  ing  been  brought  against  his  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  York,  imputing  to  litta  personal  corrup corruptionotoi  tionotoi corruptionotoi  criminal  etninis'ance  in  his  othee  of  Commander  in  Chief  of  his  Nlajestv's  Vorces,  and  this  House  having  referred  the  said  charges  to  a  Committee  of  the  whole  I  I  ouse,  and  haying  maturely  and  carefully  investigated  the  saint-,  feel,  it  its  duty  to  pronounce  a  distinct  and  direct  opinion  upon  the  said  charges  of  personal  corruption  and  criminal  c  Mr.  BATHURST  could  not,  for  his  part,  approve  of  the  Address  moved  by  the  lion.  Gentleman  (Mr.  Wardle).  Thk!  House  had  it  it-:  its  power  to  pronounce  an  equivalent  censure  without  a  per  7  sonal  demand  of  his  Majesty,  that  he  would  be  pleased  to  dismiss  his  son  from  the  command  of  the  army.  But  if  he  haul  an  oljecti  on  to  the  lion.  Geutleman's  Address;  he  had  an  aliens'  equal  ob objection  jection objection  to  that  proposed  by  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exenequec.  The  former,  he  thought,  went  too  far  ;  the  latter  certainly  not  far  enough.  Now,  as  far  as  the  proposed  Address  merelymerelyexpre  ,, STYLE=superscript  sed  the  innocence  of  his  Bova]  highness  of  all  corrupt  partici  patimt  and  criminal  privity,  he  most  fully  concurred  in  it.  But  this  division  did  not  include  the  whole  charge  ;  he  had  originally'  (in  his  own  conception  of  it)  divided  it  into  three  points,  - STYLE=superscript  pr  distinct  heads:—  Ist,  A  participation  in  the  corrupt  dealing.  2:1.  A  knowledge  of  such  corrupt  dealing  . STYLE=superscript  .  3d.  Undue  intlueece.  There  - STYLE=superscript  were  many  Clentl,ltnen  who  were  perfectly  prepared  to  acquit  his  Royal  Ilighnes4  under  the'  two  former  points,  but  who  entertained  a  very  diifereat  opinion  on  the  latter.  Under  such  circumstances  they  could  not  vote  for  the  proposed  Address  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  either  because  it  might  be  supposed  to  involve  them  in  a  g,Nferal  ac acquittal,  quittal, acquittal,  or  because  it  did  not  go  far  enough.  Ile  most  sinc.rely  wished,  that  some  Gentleman  would  propose  an  Address,  which  should  unite  all  these  points,  and  thereby,  as  he  hoped,  com comprehend  prehend comprehend  all  parties.  1f  no  one  else  should  make  a  motion  to  t  his  effect,  he  should  most  certainly  deem  it  his  duty.  For  the  pre present  sent present  he  would  put  Mrs.  Clarke  and  .111  the  oral  testimony  quite  out  of  the  way,  and  attend  only  to  the  letters.  These  letters  were  in  fact,  the  least  suspicious  part  of  the  evidence.  The  hand-writing  of  all  had  been  verih..d,  and  the  g  rmter  pari  of  them  had  been  produced  by  chance,  and  without  any  jnendnility  or  concert  or  contrivance.'  Such  weii,  the  packets  produced  by  Nichols.  In  one  of  these  was  a  letter  from  his  Royal  Ilighnesi  the  Duke  of  York  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  in  which  he  Clavering  that  there  are  no  new  regiments  to  be  Now  this  certainly  proves  that  the  Duke  of  York  Was  is  the  habit  of  consulting  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  let  the  Right  Hon.  Gentle,  man  explain  it  as  he  will,  it  appears  that  his  Royal  Highness  had  no  reserve  with  Mrs.  Clarke  upon  these  sulicet  ;  ;.  And  u  hat  was  the  point  of  fact—a  man  of  family  acid  cotim.ction,  neral  Clavering,  is  so  thoroughly  persuaded  of  the  influence  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  whether  she  really  had  it  (or  not,  that  lie  oll'ere:1  her  one  thousand  pounds  to  procure  hira  a  regiment.  Here,  therefore,  one  important  point  is  established—that  the  army  had  this  opinion  of  the  influence  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  that  ttiey  acted  under  this  opinion.  He  had  examined  the  evidence  with  the  utmost  care  from  the  beginning  to  the  end,  and  *the  result  of  his  opinion  was,  that  there  was  no  evidence  w  hat=  ever  which  could  bring  home  to  the  Duke  the  guilt  of  participa participation,  tion, participation,  or  even  of  privity.  But  he  must  avow  it,  on  the  ot  4  1  hand,  as  his  most  decided  opinion,  that  there  was  the  ;nest  po.:  sitive  proof  that  the  Duke  had  bestowed  the  place:(  ments  of  his  office  anger  the  ':„uggestion  and  influence  of  Mrs.  •  Clarke,  and  therefore  the  most  improper.  The  Chancellor  ot  the  Exchequer  had  consumed  a  great  deal  of  time  in  endeavouring  to  exempt  his  Royal  Highness  from  all  blame  in  the  case  (if  Captain  Carter.  But  how  did  the  matter  stand  ?  The  letters  of  Carter  spoke  for  themselves—to  w  how  did  this  young  matt  impute  his  promotion—every  letter  teemed  with  gratitude  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  to  Mrs.  Clarke  alone—there  was  not  a  word  of  the  Duke  mentioned  in  them—not  a  syllable  which  would  lead  to  any  opinion  that  the  Doke  had  given  him  his  commission  as  the  son  of  Captain  Sutton.  It  was  nqiiting  to  this  view  of  the  question  whether  Samuel  Carter  was  or  was  not  alootman  of  Mrs.  Clarke;  the  only  inference  which  was  necessary  to  he  deduced  was,  that  this  young  man  had  prucured  his  commission  't  P9_TB00006 f  11 STYLE=superscript  1  •  •  •  4  1  1  •  •  P9_TB00007 1  _  throughout  the  whole,  that  it  should  not  be  Known  to  toe  LJUKC  man  explain  it  as  Ile STYLE=superscript  ww,  IL  itili  luatt STYLE=superscript  z  4,1.1.  ...,  that  she  was  any  way  connected  with  Santion;  and  this  I  can  ac  - STYLE=superscript  .1  •.,..••••  .  •  •.,  .....  •,.  had  no  reserve  with  Mrs.  Clarke  upon  these  subjects.  Ant  w  hat  :  ,  count  for  in  no  other  w:l,y,  than  by  supposing  she  was  afrai  d STYLE=superscript  lest STYLE=superscript  was  the  point  of  fact  — STYLE=superscript  a  man  of STYLE=superscript  family STYLE=superscript  anti  enttec!ioa,  Ii!.;  (;;..,  H  his  Highness  should  discover  her  practices.  T  he STYLE=superscript  Right  on.  nera  l  Clayering,  is  so  thoroughly  persuaded  of  the  ittila:_atee  of  1,-  Gentleman  then  went  into  a  minute  examination  of  t STYLE=superscript  h  e STYLE=superscript  p  robable STYLE=superscript  Mrs.  Clark  e, STYLE=superscript  whether STYLE=superscript  she STYLE=superscript  reall STYLE=superscript  y  had STYLE=superscript  it STYLE=superscript  or STYLE=superscript  not, STYLE=superscript  that  lie  oill•re.1 STYLE=superscript  '  expenditure  at  Gloacester-place,  during  the  period  that  Mrs.  her  one  thousand  pounds  to  procure  him  a  regiment.  Here,  Clarke  was  lining  there  under  the  protection  of  the  Du  ke STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  therefore,  one  important  p  oint STYLE=superscript  is STYLE=superscript  established—that STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  army STYLE=superscript  York,  and  contended,  6 STYLE=superscript  that  the  sums  he  furnished  her  were  suf-  had  this  opinion  of  the  influence  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  that  itie'y  ftcient  to  cover  the  expenses  of  that  establishment,  without  there  acted  under  this  opinion.  He  had  examined  the  evideece  1  being  any  necessity  for  Mrs.  Clarke  to  have  had-  recourse  to  cor-  with  the  utmost  care  from  the  beginning  to  the  end,  and  the'  •  rupt  and  criminal  means  to  raise  supplies.  Af!er  'commenting  at  result  of  his  opinion  was,  that  there  was  no  evi  d STYLE=superscript  ence  what  . STYLE=superscript  some  length  upon  the  evidence  relative  to  t  h STYLE=superscript  e  service STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  p  late STYLE=superscript  ever  which  could  bring  home  to  the  Duke  the  guilt  of  participa-  f  i  1  purchased  of  Parker  and  Birket,  he  put  it  stro  n STYLE=superscript  g  l STYLE=superscript  y  to STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  House, STYLE=superscript  tion, STYLE=superscript  whether  it  was.  possible  that  the  Duke  of  Y  ork, STYLE=superscript  with STYLE=superscript  the  hand,  as  his  most  decided  opinion,  that  there  was  the  taest  pa  .,.. STYLE=superscript  1,.  patronage  of  preferments  to  the  amount  of  nea  r STYLE=superscript  400,0001. STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  y  ear STYLE=superscript  or  even  of  privity.  But  he  must  avow  it,  on  the  ot4f  proof  that  the  Duke  had  bestowed  the  placeaitappoie:...  fi  sitive  :t  a  T  i  in  his  disposal,  could  have  connived  at  or  been  concerned  in  the  meats  of  his  office  antler  the  'suggestion  and  inane:ice  of  Mrs  ►  I.  paltry  criminal  traffic  to  which  Mrs.  Clarke  had STYLE=superscript  so STYLE=superscript  falsel STYLE=superscript  y  at- STYLE=superscript  •  Clarke, STYLE=superscript  and STYLE=superscript  therefore STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  most STYLE=superscript  improper. STYLE=superscript  The STYLE=superscript  Chancellor  oi  I  -  tached  his  name.  The  Right  Hon.  Gentleman  next  touched  the  Exchequer  had  consumed  a  great  deal  of  time  in  endeavouriNg  i•  '  upon  the  contradictions  of  Mrs.  :Favery,  who  he  had  no  doubt  to  exempt  his  Royal  Highness  front  all  blame  in  the  case  (if  was  the  half-sister  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  though  that  fact  had  not  come  Captain  Carter.  But  how  did  the  matter  stand  ?  The  letters  h  i  ,  out  in  evidence,  4 STYLE=superscript  .'  To  oppose  the  testimony  of  such  witn  e STYLE=superscript  s  ses STYLE=superscript  as  of  Carter  spoke  for  themselves  — STYLE=superscript  to  w  host  did  this  )  to.mg  wai  t  1  :  said  the  Right  lion.  Gentleman  let  us  consider  who STYLE=superscript  impute  his  promotion—every  letter  teemed  with  gratitude  to  t,'  are  the  persons,  with  the  exception  of  this  abandoned  woman, STYLE=superscript  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  to  Mrs.  Clarke  alone—there  was  not  a  word  i•!  : STYLE=superscript  who  have  enjoyed  most  of  the  confidence  of  his  Royal  Highness. STYLE=superscript  of  the  Duke  mentioned  in  them—not  a  syllable  which  would  Characters  like  (cn.  Calvert,  Colonel  Gordon,  and  many STYLE=superscript  others,  lead  to  any  opinion  that  the  Mike  had  given  him  his  commissien  went  to  ,exempt  his;  Royal  Highness  from  every  insinuatiolt  of  as  the  son  of  Captain  Sutton.  It  was  Ailing  to  this  view  of  .1  '  '  undue  and  improper  influence.  The  persons  I  have  mentioned STYLE=superscript  the  question  whether  Samuel  Carter  was  or  was  not  alootwan  of  Mrs.  Clarke  ;  the  only  inference  which  was  necessary  to  he  ,  :  i  cannot  be  deemedk  likely  to  have  sulfered  any  circumstances  practices  of  corrukttion,  or  even  of  negligence,  to  have  passed  deduced  was,  that  this  young  man  had  procured  his  commiszlon  ir  I.  71"
