text
"JAN.  99.  city,  vitt  most  amiable  manners.  lle  concludes  his  Let Letter  ter Letter  with  stating,  that  he  shall  remain  at  Madrid,  in  order,  by  his  influence  with  the  fruit:li  t  to  preserve  public  tran tranquillity.  quillity. tranquillity.  The  Junta  have  published  this  letter,  accompanied  with  the  strongest  terms  of  reprobation  of  the  baseness  and  trea treachery  chery treachery  of  the  writer.  'We  are  sorry  to  state,  that  the  greatest  ferment  exists  in  this  moment  in  Jamaica,  in  consequence  of  the  Governor  refusing  to  comply  witli  a  request  of  the  Legislature,  to  institute  an  cil  j  uiry  n.iative  to  the  death  pf  Major  Darley  and  Lick.  Ellis,  who  had  been  murdered  last  May,  during  the  mutiny  of  a  Negro  corps.  No  Coroner's  inquest  hav having  ing having  been  held  on  these  murders,  the  Legislature  of  the  Island,  on  the:yr  assembling,  immediately  requested  the  Governor  to  cause  to  be  laid  before  it  copies  of  the  military  proceedings  against  the  mutinee;  . STYLE=superscript  s.  ••  This  re requel.-t  quel.-t requel.-t  of  the  House  Of  Agenilly  being  indicated  by  Lis  Grace  to  the  Commander  in  Chief,  Major-Genqal  Carmichael,  that  ollicer  refuwd  comp;iance  with  it,  and  prohibited  all  military  persons  from  4ns%cring  anv  questions  that  the  legislat4e  Body  might  put  to  them  respe4inkr,  the  late  mutiny.  Whereupon  the  House  form forming  ing forming  a  General'  Committee,  ordered  the  Speaker  to  issue  his  warrant,  requiring  the  attendance  of  Major  General  Carmichael  himself  at  the  1)4  qt  . STYLE=superscript  the  Ilouse.  With  this  re  quisition  the  General  refused  compliance;  and  the  Gover Governor  nor Governor  declared  his  perfect  agreement  in  the  iiriticiple  of  such  refusal.  The  consequence  of  this  was  that  a  motion  was  carried  new.  can.  That  Mr.  Speaker  do  issue  a  warrant  to  take  Major  General  Carmichael  into  custody  of  the  Ser Sergeant  geant Sergeant  at  Arms,  for  a  contempt  that  The  hlonse  was  immediately  prorogued  ;  and  this  measure  is  stated  to  have  thrown  the  Island  into  the  liqiliest  state  of  ferment."
