text
"APRIL  2  ,  ,  Wednesday,  Jpril  19.  •  BA  N  K  RIT  PT  LAWS.  Onlite  Clattse-forpermintte:  the  . STYLE=superscript  liaticrutit  'to  be  ft  - STYLE=superscript  Wittiest  after  he  has  received  his  certificate,  but  before  he  has  released  :113  allowance,  a=ir  - STYLE=superscript  Samuel  Romilly  propord  an  Amendment,  to  ofivihte  some  olj:tetions  which  he  'understood  Would  be  nia,de  to`  the  Clause,tthat  the  Poinkmtpt  in  a  casein  which  his  own  Assignees  are  the  claimants  ',tmid  be  rendered  ,t;  competent  Witness  o  n  giy giy.ing  .ing giy.ing  in  release  to  any  intert.-.t  ar6ing  out  of  t  hat  action  in  v.  hint  he  is  a  witness.  In  support  of  this  amenduient  it  wv.s  urged  by  Sir  S.  Hominy,  Mr.  Morris,  Mr.  Stake  - STYLE=superscript  it,  and  Sir  Charles  Price,  that,  - STYLE=superscript  as  the  law  now'  st4od,  the  la  of  evidence  were  violated  by  admittinz  an  interested  witness;  and  contended  on  the  other  hand  by  the  Attorney  and  Solicitor-General,  Mr.  Wilson  - STYLE=superscript  4nd  Daoirs  Gidov,  that  the  bankrupt  ?leasing  his  allowance  retured  him  a  competent  witness,  and  that  his  no nominal  minal nominal  interest,  if  any,  would  go  rather  to  affect  the  credit  than  the  competence  or  the  The  Clause,  as  anietulcd,was  allowed  to  stand  part  of  the  On  the  clause  granting  to  the  bankrupt  a  right  or  apral  to  the  ChanCellor,  in  case  said  bankrapt  was  refit:eds  a  certificate  by  four  fifths  of  his  creditors  in  uninher  awl  value,  a  long  con conyersatitin  yersatitin conyersatitin  took  place  between  Mr.  Steven  - STYLE=superscript  and  'the  Solicitor-,  Geueral.,  in  which  the  former  supported  the  - STYLE=superscript  cause  and  the  latter  oppos6l  it.  •  The  Ouse  was  put  and  agreed  to.  The  report  was  bronght  np,  ordered  to  be  taken  into  further  consideration  on  this  day  se'nnight,  and  to  be  printed;—Adjourned.  Thursday,  April,  20.  (tit  kitrT  OF  LAND  AT  CHELSEA  TO  COL.  GORDON.  11r.  HuAlsson  rose  for  the  purpose,  of  moving  that  there  he  laid  heffitte  the  House  some  Papers;  in  addition  to  those  order/A  on'  Friday  last,  relative  to  the  land  granted  at  Chelsea,  to  Colo.  nel  Gordon,  in  order  to  enable  the  House  to  judge  more  satis satisfactorily  factorily satisfactorily  of  the  nature  and  circumstances  of  that  transaction.  lie  had  already  in  a  former  debate-stated  that  the  coadition  of  the  grant  to  Col.  Gordon  was,  that  no  buildings  should  he  erect erected  ed erected  on  the  land  which  could  interfOre  with  Chelsea  floipital.  But  having  heard  in  that  instance  from  two  Hon.  Baronets  (Sir  Francis  atiltlett  and  Sit-Oswald  Wisely)  who  had  personally  surveyed'  the  ;eremises,  that  the  buildings  iacontemplation  would  interfere  with  the  Infirmary  of  the  Hospital,  he  thought  it  •  his  duty  to  go  the  next  day  to  inspect  the  ground  and  ascertain  that  fact.  On  inspection,  hedid  find  That  ;the  ereetionof  a  httildirg  !  in  the  situation  where  the.  foundation  was  preparing,  would  in interfere  terfere interfere  with  the  Infirmary,  and  consequently  would  he  a  viola violation,  tion, violation,  or  rather  a  departure  from  the  condition  of  the  grant.  in  .the  evening  he  communicated  this  circumstance  to  his  night  110.  nottrable  Friend  (the  Chiniellor  of  the  Eichequer),  and  begged  of  hi  t  n  to  juopeet-io  person  the  premises  ;  and  the.  con  s STYLE=superscript  eque  nce STYLE=superscript  was,  thisboainquiry,  it  was  . STYLE=superscript  foun#  that  the  person  who  had  taken  possession  of  the  land,  and  was  erayloyed  to  prepare  the  foundation  of  the  building,  bad  not  consulted  either  the  `;tar `;tarveystr-etteartl.  veystr-etteartl. `;tarveystr-etteartl.  of  OFown  40s,  .or  the  Surveyor  of  Chel,ea  :Lai4l,ooon  the  subject;  'l4  .inquiry  had  been  directed  in  writ writingtoAteSUrveyor-General  ingtoAteSUrveyor-General writingtoAteSUrveyor-General  of  Crown  [Awls,  and  in  consequence  ithe'  i  ttitpa  i  tfOu  tlf  ,the  foundation  for  the  building  had  been  altered;  SO  014  it  appealed  by  the  answer,  that  a  budding  on  the  no  w  intended  fonadation,  would  not,  in  th'e  Smallest  degree,  interfere  with  ;  the  Hospital.  The  papers  he  shouldinove  for,  were  copies  of  . STYLE=superscript  the  letters  of.  George  Harrison,  Esq.  to  the  Surveyor-i..ieneral  of  Crowe  Lands  upon  014°  suhject,  together  with  .  the  ani,wers  theretti.  He  should  also  move  for  a  copy  of  the  Report  of  the  two  Surveyors  who  valued  this,land  at  55/.  a-y.c4tte,  upon.  oath,  which  valuatioo  they  still  .conti STYLE=superscript  u  ued STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  think  adt'Nuate.  Whew  these  papets  should  be  before  the  House,  they  would  clearly  she,wahat  i  itwas  not  the  intention  of  the  Trca-u1)  to  grant  a  fa fayour,  your, fayour,  to  any  individual,  at  the  ex  pence  of  the  health  or  comfort  of  the  Invalids  of  the  Hospital.  He  concluded  by  movi moving  ng moving  that  these  Papers  be  laid  b  efor STYLE=superscript  e  the  House.  The  Papers  were  ordered,  and  Mr.  Huskisson  presented  them  from  the  Bar;  when  they  were  ordered  to  lie  on  tas  t  e  table,  ma.  to  bz  printed.  °  •  \‘•  GENERAL  CLAVERING.  Sri  Thomas  Turten,  in  rising  to  make  the  motion  of  which  he'  had  given  notice,  was  aware  of  the  difficulty  in  which  he  writs'  placed  by  the  late  prOceedings  in  that  House  respecting  General  Clavering.  If  he  were  nut  convinced  of  the  importance  of  the'  question,  not  only  Witte  justice  of  that  House,  but  to  theliberty  •  of  the  subject,  he  should  he.thelast.tuan  to  appeal  to  the  mag•-•  1"
