text
"CAVALRY  SENT  TO  SP4IN,  &amp;C.  Earl  DARN  LEY  moved  fur  Returns  of  the  Cavalry  sent  to  Spain  and  Portugal.  His  Lordship  said  the  object  of  t.is  motion  was,  to  discover  whether  Ministers  had  sent  a  proper  proportion  of  cavalry  on  the  late  service  in  Spain  and  Portugal.  Nolue  Earl  concluded  by  moving,  first,  Inc  Returns  of  Cavalry  in  England,  Ireland,  and  Scotland  ;  secondly,  for  iteturns  of  the  Cavalry  sent  to  Sir  A.  Welle-dey  at  Vimiera,  and  Sir  J.  Moore,  previous  to  the  junction  of  the  two  armies;  thirdly,  for  Copies  of  the  communications  from  the  Juntas  of•  Spain.  The  Earl  of  Ltv  ER  POO  t,  conceived  that  the  motion  ought  to  be  more  evtensive,  therefore  moved  amendment,  to  include  returns  of  all  cavalry  sent  to  Portugal  Spain,  to  the  end  of  I  titH.  The  motion,  with  the  amendment,  was  carried.  The  Noble  Earl  then  stated,  that  the  instructions  transmitted  to  the  Otlicers  employed  in  the  Expedition  to  Spain,  &amp;c.  should  be  laid  before  tile  Iluuse.—Adjourned.  Frir;try,  ORDERS  IS  COUNCIL.  Lord  GRENVILLE  rose  to  make  his  promised  motion.  It  would,  be  said,  be  in  their  Lordships  recollection,  that  in  con consequence  sequence consequence  of  the  sentiments  felt  and  expressed  by  every  clas  of  merchants  and  manufacturers  in  this  kilidaMl,  he  had,  on  a  former  occasion,  distinctly  ..,o1  fully  stated  his  opinions  and  his  argu arguments  ments arguments  upon  the  question,  which  this  night  his  duty  galled  up  o  n  him  again  to  bring  before  their  Lordships-1  question  involvi  n  g  not  merely  the  commercial  and  fiaancial  interests,  but  the  politi political  cal political  and  moral  justice,  nay,  in  its  ultimate  effects,  the  safety,  per perhaps  haps perhaps  the  existence  of  the  Empire.  From  the  authentic  and  printed  documents  upon  their'  Lordships'  table,  he  would  make  it  manifest  to  every  Noble  Lord  who  heard  him,  that,  so  far  from  unfairness,  or  partiality,  exhibited  on  the  part  of  America  against  this  country,  and  in  favour  of  France,  nothing  could  pos possibly  sibly possibly  be  more  fair  or  impartial,  excep:,  imleed,  w  hat  his  Lord Lordship  ship Lordship  maintained  was  truly  the  case,  a  partiality,  and  a  very  im important  portant important  one,  in  favour  of  this  country.  Here  his  Lordship  read  the  instructions  sent  by  the  American  Government  to  Mr.  Armstrong  in  Paris,  :LA  to  Mr.  Pinckney  in  London,  whereby  it  appeared  that  the  proposal  to  this  Govern Government  ment Government  was  that,  on  the  part  of  America,  the  Embargo  should  he  suspended,  provided  we  would  reseiud  the  Orders  in  Council;  and  this  being  agreed  upon,  it  was  added,  that  she)  mid  France  refuse  to  cancel  her  decrees,  she  must  necessarily  draw  upon  herself  the  hostility  of  America.  The  same  proposition,  and  in  the  same  terms,  was  made  to  the  Government  of  France;  so  that  here  was  a  fair  opportunity  of  not  only  conciliating  the  American  States,  and  restoring  the  good  understanding,  and  the  solid  advantages  from  it  resulting  to  both  countries,  but  a  strong  probability  was  afforded  of  a  cordial  and  ;:etive  co-operation,  by  a  powerful  Ally,  in  prosecuting  war  agaitist  the  common  enemy.  flis  Lordship  reprobated,  in  very  strong  terms,  the  conduct  of  Ministers,  which  appeared  to  have  been  suggested  by  no  motive  of  wisdom,  justice,  or  policy,  but  to  grow  oat  of  a  principle  of  petty  and  despicable  pride.  From  the  Papers  on  the  table,  he  deduced  a  deplorable  falling  oil'  in  the  anuoint  of  Imports  and  Exports  from  and  to  the  American  States  last  year.  With  re respect  spect respect  to  that  most  important  article  corn,  it  was  well  known  to  their  Lordships  and  to  the  world,  that  this  country  did  not  pro produce  duce produce  a  quantity  of  it  at  all  adequate  to  its  own  consumption;  and  now  that  we  were  deprived  of  all  our  former  sources  of  supply  from  the  Northern  ports  of  Europe,  it  became  peculiarly  ne necessary  cessary necessary  to  obtain  it  through  America.  But.  if  Minis:ers,  as  seemed  to  he  their  object,  were  determined  to  force  that  country  into  war  with  us,  what  might  be  the  consequence,  in  this  point  of  view,  it  would  well  becoole  their  Lordships  seriously  to  consider.  Lord  BA  rnuRST  expressed  a  readiness  to  begin  A  negotiation  with  America,  as  soon  as  that  country  would  oder  ti:rms  which  it  was  consonant  r.ith  the  dignity  of  Great  Britain  to  accept.  It  had  been  stated  by  the  Noble  Mover,  that  the  intention  of  the  duties  imposed  by  the  Orders  in  C.:ancil  on  foreign  trade,  was  to  increase  the  public  1....-satie  of  the  S:  .:e.  But  he  (l.;  tared,  that  their  chief  end  was  to  distress  th.s,  foe,  .to  deprive  him,  and  the  nations  that  groaoi'd  1),..•.,'ath  his  despot  ism,vnidttsbmy  tbe  iriv  ,  of  t  s  lins  )  e  iiis  commo commodities  dities commodities  which  they  had  so  1..:!g  eil  s  iO  eel;  a  which  must  be  intolerahle,  to  force  them  to  cry  ai  otid  for  peace.  The  Noble  Lord  was  much  in  the  a'l'ong,  if  he  fancied  that  our  manufactures  had  suffered  so  much  ;  he  Avonld  find,  on  the  con contrary,  trary, contrary,  that  in  ISOtr  there  was  an  iecrease,  in  t'•-.  exports  of  our  ma mai  i mai  nufaetmed  . STYLE=superscript  pods,  of  five  hundred  thousand  pounds.  Lord  Bathurst  then  pointe  r  '  out  several  large  tracts  of  uncultivated  ground  in  Ireland,  where  it  would  he  easy  to  wow  flax,  as  soon  as  the  seed  -  could  be  obtained  from  Lower  Canada;  which,  on  account  of  =  P3_TB00018 1  •  •=-1  t,  •  •  .•  .•  •"
