text
"THE  NATIONAt  titnisTETl;  .:TAN;  Geaeial  Franceschi  overthrew  them  Witt  a  single  charge— chargekilled  killed chargekilled  many  ;  they  lost  one  Coloneli  Y  Lieatenatit.Colonels,  50  •  Officers  and  1500  men.  On  the  31st,  Marshal  Soull  bntereA  Leon;  Marshal  Bessieres,  with  900  cavalry,  is  parsuing  the  English  hive  taken  200  waggons  of  baggage  left  on  the  road  td  Astorga--:-Itoinana's  remains  have  thrown  tlieinbelves  into  As Astorga.  torga. Astorga.  General  St.  Cyr  has  joined  General  .Dtihesm.  That  junction  has  raised  his  army  to  40,000.  The  King  of  S  I  pa.ii  bas  gone  to  Aranjuez,  in  order  to  retie*  the  tirstcorpsi  commanded  by  the  Duke  of  Belluno.  gt  must  exercise  uo  temporal  or  corpor,iljurisdictiuti  uver  cue  cal-  MTS.  I  hare  accontpli§heil  what  I  owed  to  Myself  and  ray  nation.  Vengilince  has  but  its  due.-  It  has  fittleo  upon  t;11  of  the  pi  awl awlpal  pal awlpal  culprits  ;  the  rest  have  entire  and  absolute  corglziwitttl.  I  have  abolished  thUse  ptivilegeS.  which  toe  gr.tildoes  usurped  during  tithei  of  civil  war,  when  but  tau  frequente  I.  are  neee,,sitated  to  surrender  their  rigiits,  tu,p4twuttse  Oc•  tru%  tranquillity,  and  that  o  1  their  people.  aboltsite4  the  fetidal  rig-tt.-,  and  hetteettirili  every  one  tnai,s  et,  up  jugs*  oven.,  cinploy  himself  in  ftshibg  *arid  ittlibit  and  give  flee  ,cope  to  his.  industry,  provided  he  f.  spdlretv  the  lava.  d  re retil..ttion.;  til..ttion.; retil..ttion.;  of  the  police.  Theselffihnesii  tketli,4tid  .  pitiioerity  of  a  sntall  ttitittlfei  of  indivithinl4,  Were  'snore  injurious  to  )use  :Igrietilture  th,in  the  /teat  of  the  dog-da3s..  As  tht4e  is  but  one  (kid,  so  should  tliere  be  ih  - STYLE=superscript  it  state  but  one  judicial  power.  All  peculiar  jurlsdietiotts  uekrestssurpationi  , STYLE=superscript  and  at  variance  w  ith  the  rights  of  the  uation—l  have  itch/Wilted  them.  .  •  I.  i  I  have  Mao  made  known  tti  every  title  *line  he  rimy  have  t  o  fear,  aud  w  hat  tie  may  haste  tii  hope.  I  stlall  evpel  tae  En  4-  fish  army  frinn  the  Peninsula.  Sartigos  , STYLE=superscript  n,  •  Valencia,  Sevill?6,  hall  be  redtleed  to  stitebisqon,  either  by  pertuasiori  or  Vie  power  of  My  arms.  •  There  Is  no  obstacle  Willett  can  lung  resist  the  execution  at'  my  resolutions.  :_  , STYLE=superscript  T  • STYLE=superscript  AI  - STYLE=superscript  1?  •  BLit  What  tran:xends  my  powci  is  thit—to..consolidnte  the  Spaiiiartif.z  as  one  nation,  und,l-  the  sway  df  the  . STYLE=superscript  King,  should  they  cuntintie  to  be  infected  with  these  principles  of  aversion  and  hatred  to  Franco.-,  which  the  partisans  of  the  English  nod  the  eneiniei  of  the  Contiuent  have  ieused  into  the  huatint  of  Spain.  I  can  establiili  no  patio°,  iio  King,  no  independence  of  the  Spaniards,  if  the  king  be  not  assured  of  their  attachMent  and  fidelity.  .  The  Bourbons  can  no  longer  reign  in  Etirope:  THe  410-  .sions  in  the  [Loyal  Family  were  contrived  by  the  English...  It  was  not  the  dethronement  of  King  Charles;  and  the  favourite  (the  Priem  of  Vence),  that  the  Duke  df  that  tool  4if  England,  as  is  proved  by  the  papers  fottnd.iiilits  . STYLE=superscript  Wise,  hid  tit titview.  view. titview.  The  intention  was  to  establish  the'predotfitnant  intluenee  of  England  iu  Spain;  a  senseless  pfojeit,  the  'Wink  of  which  would  have  peen  a  perpetual  Continental  Sate,  thist  w  titatl  hasp  caused  the  shedding  of  torrknts  of  Mood:  No  Ow  er  ti•eler  the  iniitittre  of  England  can  exist  on  the  6nitinent.  there  he  any  that  entertain  such  a  wish,  their  wish  is  absurd,  and  *ill  sootier  or  later  Occasion  their  fall.  .  .  It  would  he  easy  for  me,  shthild  I  he  compelled  to  adept  that  measure,  to  govern  .Spain,  by  establishing  as  runny  Vice Viceroys  roys Viceroys  in  it  115  there  are  proellices.  N  evertneless,  I  do  not  to  abdicate  my  rights  in  favour  of  conquest  in  favour  of  the  King,  and  to  establish  hiin  in  Madrid,  as  soon  as  the  so,dociciti so,docicitizens  zens so,docicitizens  Which  this  tapital  contains,  the  Clergy,  Nobility,  Mer.;.  chants,  and  I.Ttwjter.,  shall  have  declared  their  teatintents  null  their  fidelity,  set  an  example  to  the  provinces,  enlightened  the  people,  and  'nude  the  nation  sensible  that  their  existence  and  prosperity  essentially  depend  upon  a  King  and  a  free  Cow'.  stitutidn,  favintrable  to  the  people,  ana  hotitile  ultly  to  the  egotisrh  and  the  haughty  passions  of  the  Grandees.  64 STYLE=superscript  If  such  be  the  sentiments  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  city  of  Madrid,  let  the  30,000  citizens  assienitole  in  the  churches  ;  let  them,  in  the  presence  of  the  holy  Sacrament,  take  an  oath,  not  only  -With  their  mouths,  but  also  with  their  hearts,  anti  without  any  jesuitical  equivocation;  that  they  promise  support,  attach;  went,  and  fidelity  to  their  King;  let  the  priests  lu  their  confess  sional  and  the  pulpit,  the  mercantile  class  in  thvir  cm  - STYLE=superscript  Le:Ton:  deuce,  the  men  of  the  law  in  their  writiegs  and  speeches,  ;iifeec  these  sentiments  into  the  people  :---.then  shall  I  surrender  my  right  of  conquest,  place  the  K  tug  upon  the  throne,  and  make  it  my  pleasing  task  to  conduct  myself  as  a  true  friend  of  the  Spa Spaniards.  niards. Spaniards.  The  present  generation  may  differ  In  their  opinions  ;  the  pa.itions  have  been  too  much  brought  into  action';  but  your  grand-children  will  bless  me  as  your  renovator;  they  will  reckon  the  day  when  t  appeared  hoping  lion  anionp  - STYLE=superscript  ,  their  tnerno  rattle  festivals  ;  mid  from  that  will  tire  happiness  of  Spain  date  its  Yon  are  thus,  Monsieur  le  adfird  the  Doi  peror,  Informed  of  the  whole  of  my  determination.  Consult  with  your  felloweeitizens,  and  consider  sit  hat  'patt  you  will  c  hoose;  bat  whatever  it  be,  make  your  choice  *.fah  sincerity;  and  tell  itic  only  your"
