text
"LOC  A  t,  Lord  C  t  STLEILEA  Gil.  moved  hr  leave  to  ininn  Bill  to  41  ter  and  amend  the  Act  passed  (luring  the  last  Sesslitns  with  re.  spect  to  this  military  plan.  The  principle  of  the  new  Bill  which  he  intended  to  propose  to  the  !louse,  was  tthrelieve  the  Government  from  the  charge  of  paying  a  hounty  of  two'  guineas  per  man  entering  the  Local  Militia,  by  making  the  parisbei  in  iht•  respective  counties  pay  the  bounty  as  a  kind  of  parochial  rtx.  the  Bill  ..cas  opposed  at  some  length  by  Mr.  Whitbread  and  ?Ir.  \V  ii:.111,  whey  leave  wa•Jgraist  I  _et.  to  bring  it  in.  •  s  Li:  or  vi-mt.sc  orrirts.  l'he  Ca  A  Ncir.t.i.ntc  t  Ne  t STYLE=superscript  l'XClfetl  u  l:tc  called  the  attention  er  the  116iise  to  the  expediCney  or  twi  k  i  g  io  g  to  prevent  •Ic  sale  of,  or  brokerage  ins,  the  disposal  of  Public  •Nituatioti  , STYLE=superscript  .  The.  only  laws  extant  whirl;  bore  reference  to  these  offences  •%!.re  thoie.passed  in  the  1  4 STYLE=superscript  :2dt  of  IZichard  11.  and  the  .1111  and  fith  of  Edward  VI.  I  t  bevatnv•.tiece  , STYLE=superscript  Nary,  therefore,  to  vacs  a  new  saw,  by  ‘rhich  ntrence3,  such  .has  had  lately  come  le  the  knowledge  of  the  lion  , STYLE=superscript  e,  might  meet  with  that  puoish puoishvient  vient puoishvient  which  they  merited,  to  %hien  ne.ue  of  the  Acts  in  ex  i,tence  ere  upplieti!Jtv,.  01)lect  of  the.  HUI  would  not  he  lout  41,  prevent  the.  estabilMtneilt  of  tillices  for  the  sale  of  rs:,ces,  but  nkso  for  poi;10/ilig  ill..  notification  ()ratty  sale  by  ad advertitement,  vertitement, advertitement,  hill,  or  in  any  other  way,  which  could  4e  con conortit•si  ortit•si conortit•si  i  .ato  all  agency  for  tat  , STYLE=superscript  '  ellppULit;OL;  of  places  in  public  ()ri ()rice..  ce.. ()rice..  ..  Lore%  '  ot.KSTONr  WO  not  oppn4t*  t  he  principle  o  f  the  Bill.  Vat  &#34;I'rrzs'ng  hr,  (.  I STYLE=superscript  .lFhpprehation  u'  the  tim.l  I  •  '  APRIL  2.  chosen  for  its  introduction.  It  was  necessary,  if  law  was  to  be  enacted,  that  the  House  should  be  in  possession  of  all  the  informatics  possible  relative  to  the  abuses  in  exktence,  in  order  th3t  they  might  be  better  enabled  to  ripply  such  a  remedy  as  was  likely  to  be  attended  with  a  good  effect.  In  fact,  the  llou3e  was  at  present  completely  in  the  dark,  and  should  have  better  information  before  they  proceed  to  agree  to  the  Bill  proposed.  Leave  was  given  to  bring  in  the  Bill.  Adjourned.  Tuesday,',  March  28.  Mr.  (;rattan  presented  the  Irish  Insolvent  Debtors'  Bill.  Read  the  first  time,  and  ordered  for  the  second  reading  on  the  . STYLE=superscript  20th  of  pril.  CAPTAIN  SANDON.  Mr.  John  T4ne  moved  the  Order  of  the  Dal  for  bringing  Captain  Sandon  to  the  Bar  of  the  House,  in  oilier  to  his  being  discharged.  •  He  was  accordingly  brought  to  the  Bar,  when  the  Speaker  .  addressed  him  to  the  follovring  purport  :  Captain  Huxley  Sandon,  this  House  having  entered  upon  a  t STYLE=superscript  6 STYLE=superscript  solemn  Enquiry,  of  the  utmost  importance  to  the  admiliA  ray  tion  of  the  Army,  and  the  deepest  concern  to  the  personal  honour  of  the  illustrious  Commander  in  Chief,  you  were  6.1).  ed  on  to  give  evidence  before  a  Committee  of  this  Honourable  llouse,  touching  the  matter  in  issue;  and  in  the  course  If  your  examination,  this  House  has  adjudged  you  guilty  of  gross  prevarication.  This  offence,  at  all  tir.les  desquctive  of  the  just  authority  and  privileges  of  this  Henourable  House,  and  subversive  of  the  common  sanctions  of  the  civil  society,  has  been  by  you  considerably  aggravated  from  the  military  cha 'cha'  racter  and  profession  you  filled,  a  character  of  which  truth  and  honour  should  ever  be  the  inseparable  distinctions;  that  chigacter  has  been  by  you  degraded,  you  have  fallen  from  its  high  dignity,  and  you  have  closed  a  long  course  of  corrupt  practices  by  your  incurring  for  your  crime  the  censure  and  punishment,  which  this  House  in  its  justice  has  indicted.  Nevertheless,  this  House,  in  consequence  9f  the  shame  and  sorrow  which  you  have  expressed,  and  taking  compassion  nn  the  broken  state  of  health  under  which  it  is  alledged  you  are  now  suffering,  has  ordered  you  to  he  discharged  :  and  you  any•  nom  . STYLE=superscript  ,  discharged  accordingly,  paying  your  '  Mr.  WHITBREAD  moved,  that  the  reprimand  of  Captain  Huxley  Sandon  4:ntered  upon  the  Journals.  Ordered.accord-  Ilouqe  resolveC  into  a  Committee  to  consider  the  ex•  pedN  i  scy  of  further  extending  the  Inland  Navidation  of  Ire Ireland.  land. Ireland.  Sir  Rrmun  W  CI.LESLE:  urged  forcibly  on  the  consideration  of  the  Committee  the  expediency  of  extending  those  navignm  tions,  not  merely  for  the  local  advantage  of  Ireland,  where,  however,  they  would  be  highly  beneficial,  but  for  facilitating  the  supply  of  this  country  with  the  agricultural  produce  of  that,  by  opening  a  more  ready  and  advantageous  communication  be between  tween between  the  interior  and  the  sea  coasts.  Such,  however,  was  the  state  of  capital  amongst  the-  great  bulk  of  the  community  there,  that  it  was  not  to  be  expected  a  •purpose,  evsn  so  desirable,  could  be  carried.  into  any  considerable  effect  bfthe  funds  of  in individuals.  dividuals. individuals.  A  sum  of  500,000/.  had.been  voted  in  the  last  Ses Session  sion Session  of  the  Irish  Parliament  for  this  purpose,  and  a  Board  of  five  Commissioners  appointed  to  superintend  the  plans  proposed,  and  the  disbursements  of  sums  kilted  for  inland  navigation,  lie  therefore  intended  to  propose  a  Bill  for  thelurthe.r  advancement  of  the  inland  navigation  in  Ireland;  the  ob  t  iect  of  which  would  he,  to  continue  the  ren  ards  of  the  'lnland  Navigation  Board,  chargeable  1111(111  the  Consolidated  Fund.  •  .  .•  Sir  .1.  N::w  eon  I  fully  coincided  in  the  utility  of  promot promoting  ing promoting  Wand  navigation  in  Ireland;  but  denied  the  necessity  of  entry  ing-  the  stens  on,  under  paid  Commissioners  there,  any  snore  than  En  land,  or  in  Scotland,  where  Gentlemen  were  found  patriotism,  and  public  spirit  enough  to  give  their  aid  in  superintending  such'  ss  orks,  without  fee  or  reward.  •  It  was  casting;  an  injurious  and  degrading  refection  on  the  Gentlemen  of  Ireland  so  coppose  that  equal  patriotism  and  public  spirit  were  not  to  IK.k.toolici  in  that  country,  and  in  a  businessso  prtg•  uant  with  local  advantages.  Sir  A  writ  UR  WELL  LSLEY  denied  the  motives  attributed,  to  him,  for  the  proposition  he  offered.  The  experiment,  he  said,  hid  , STYLE=superscript  been  made  to  find  public  spirited  Gentlemen  its  Ireland,  who  would  give  their  aid  gratis,  but  it  had  failed.  A  long  discussion  then  took  place  between  Sir  Arthur  Wel Wellesley,  lesley, Wellesley,  sir  John  Newport,  Mr.  Foster,  Mr.  Parnell,.  Mr.  'Wind 'Windham,  ham, 'Windham,  and  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  and  at  kugth  the.  Committee  divided.  •  .  ,  For  the  VIII  41—,Against  it  I.—Majority‘29.  t  APRIL  1."
