text
"TILE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  psiatiple,  and  an  undeviating  rectitude,  seldom  equalled,  *ever  surpassed,  by  any  of  his  countrymen.  Ile  has  ren rendered  dered rendered  distingois  ied  services  to  his  country  ;  and  the  splen splenslow  slow splenslow  and  compre'lensiveness  of  his:abilities  honored  and  ex exalted  alted exalted  it  in  the  estimation  of  foreigners.  These  are  sure  claims  to  British  generosity,  or  rather  justice  ;  and  we  arc  much  mistaken  in  the  character.of  the  Nation,  if  it  will  not  hasten  to  .crive  this  illustrious  member  ,  a  strong  and  imme immediate  diate immediate  mark  of  its  sympathy  aced  veneration.  But  Mr.  Sheridan  is  not  the  only  victim  of  this  calamity  It  has  reduced  to  misery,  a  vast  number  of  families,  whose  .  only  means  of  subsistance  were  drawn  from  this  Theatre  'There  was  a  time  when  a  circumstance  of  this  nature  would  have  roused  every  generous,  every  sympathetic  ,f  ;cling,  of  *  British  public.  Their  situation  is  truly  deplorable,  and,  we  trust,  the  great  and  the  opulent  will  convert  tAlose  thou thousands  sands thousands  they  fling  away  in  their  heartless,  noisy  and  inhospi inhospitable  table inhospitable  routs,  to  .relieve  the  distress,  and  avert  the  despair  of  jio  many  Suffering  faMilies.  FEB.  March  13.  J.  Randall,  Birmingham,  cotton-manufacturer,  at  eleven,  at  the  Swan  Tavern,  Birmingham—March  15.  W•  Chambers,  Carlisle,  draper,  at  eleven,  at  the  Lion  and  Lamb  Inn,  Carlisle—March  15.  T.  Williams,  Caerphilly,  Glamorgan Glamorganshire,  shire, Glamorganshire,  wool-manufacturer,.at  eleven.  at  the  Angel  Inn,  CarOill—  21.  J.  Crossley,  Halifax,  merchant.  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall,  London—June  3.  A.  Man,  of  Mark-lane,  alter,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall—April  23.  J.  Johnson,  Holborn,  inen-draper,  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  CERTIFICATES  -MARCH  11.  R.  Brindle,  Leytand,  Lancashire,  bleacher—S.  Trapp,  Chad.  derton,  Lancashire,  manufacturer—G.  Laing,  Lowion,  merchant  —J.  Barnes,  Liverpool,  tailor.  SATURDAY'S  LONDON  GAZETTE."
