text
"No.  59.  POLI'T'ICAL  D  ISQ  ISITION.  Xt  ABER  I  IFTY•SEV/BX.  -••■410...  SPANISH  AFFAIRS.  A  cetebrated  reaoldtlonary  demagogue,  after  the  atrocities  of  the  revolution  had  destroyed  every  trace  of  predllectiou  for  its  'principles,  is  reported  to  have  said,  it  held  out  great  advantages  to  mankind,  but  it  felt  into  the  hands  of  very  bad  men.  This  is  impremely  true  with  regard  to  the  unforeseen,  the  unboped  for,  occurrences  is  Spain  ;  they  promised  Incalculable  advaotages,  but  they  were  frustrated  by  the  interference  and  mismanagement  of  wry  bad  and  very  weak  men.  Their  Gist  appearance  was  bailed  by  the  good  and  enlightened  in  every  part  of  Europe,  and  parti particularly  cularly particularly  in  this  country,  as  the  certain  signal  of  deliverance  from  calamities,  which  men  were  preparing  to  submit  to  as  una unavoidable.  voidable. unavoidable.  The  universal  enthdsiasm  they  excited  In  the  com commencement,  mencement, commencement,  could  have  been  alone  produced  by  a  strong  sense  of  imminent  danger,  and  the  unexpected  certainty  of  escaping  it.--  We  participated  strongly  in  the  feelings  of  our  cotemporaries;  but  as  we  never  desponded,  and  never  harboured  an  idea  of  sub.-  witting  with  resignation  to  the  pressure  of  public  misfortunes,  however  alarming,  we  felt  no  other  Sensation  on  the  occasion,  bat  that  triumphant  one  which  men  of  a  certain  character  feel,  wben  they  see  their  speculations  in  favour  of  human  virtue  and  energy  realised  by  occurrences.  Our  joy  belrayed  neither  ex extraordinary  traordinary extraordinary  zuituoisbnient,  nor  symptoms  of  fOrmer  despondency,  bat  it  Rowed  from  the  colremplatian  of  innocence  and  freedom  totally  triumphiagavor  injustice  and  violence.  •  We  were  far,  however,  from  being  insensible  to  those  alarm alarmlag  lag alarmlag  marks  of  !Wildcat  apathy  add  indivialual  selfishoets,  which  begin  to  Creep  into  society  in  the  train  of  overgrown  opulence  :  Sind  luxury;  and  we  looked  with  some  anxiety  to  the  persons  on  whose  capacity,  firniness,  and  versatility  of  mind  depeudtal  the  fortunate  issue  of  Spanish  resistance.  We  might  have  been  discouraged  from  entertaining  over  sanguine  expectations  by  the  experience  of  the  inadequate  measures  adopted  by  nieces  , STYLE=superscript  sive  admiuistrations  for  the  last  fourteen  years  ;  but  we  were  in inclined,  clined, inclined,  at  the  same  time,  to  trust,  that  repeated  disappoint disappointments  ments disappointments  and  reverses  had  sufficieatly  impressed  the  inexpediency  of  their  measures,  and  that  a  system  of  vigorous  policy  would  succeed,  at  last,  to  the  miserable,  shuffling,  and  spiritless  half  measurta,  hich,  during  that  interval,  marked  and  disgraced  -  our  exertion&amp;  We  were  nut  unaequaiuted  with  the  resources  and  former  success  of  the  enemy  ;  we  bad  followed  him  with  painful  attention  in  the  career  or  his  victories  and  conquests;  and  bad,  by  no  means,  forgot  that  former  efforts,  on  the  rata  of  other  states,  to  stop  him  in  the  rapidity  of  his  course,  termi terminated  nated terminated  In  their  abasement  or  subjugation.  We  knew  all  these  circueastatees  ;  but  we  would  rather  appear,  in  the  estimation  of  our  cotemporaries,  as  senseless  drivellers  and  extravagant  visionaries,  than  lay  claims  to  soperior  penetration  ana  judg judgment,  ment, judgment,  if  this  reputation  were  only  to  be  acquired  by  expressing  our  contempt  of  thepresent  generation,  auts  proclaitntogtheft.  l STYLE=superscript  4  of  expecting  from  their  efforts  an  effectual  opposition  to  the  Overwhelming  inroads  of  usurpation  and  tyranny.  Never  Will  II  sentiment,  implying  so  contemptible  an  opinion  of  man mankind.  kind. mankind.  dishonour  the  columns  of  this  paper;  but  an  unceasing  appeal  Mill  6a  made  to  the  characteristic  energy  aad  patriotism  of  our  countrymen.  We  will  remind  them  of  the  virtues  and  ex exploits  ploits exploits  of  their  ancestor,  of  the  trials  tbel  eateostatasedp  awl.  the  ;4!..  PIA%  P1_TB00012 #  9 STYLE=superscript  O  11  1 STYLE=superscript  /  4  1  111  1  1 STYLE=superscript  5  51  ti  •  •  •  •  1  ;  /  0 STYLE=superscript  1.  •  „  •  e  f,  •Sle  .„  .  •  .  lit  5  r"
