text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  the  honour  to  belong.  The  names  of  Moore,  Hope,  Ferguson,  &amp;c.  u  ere  now  to  be  added  to  it.  Reflecting  on  British  merit,  he  felt  the  cash  in  his  pocket  grow  harder  and  heavier.  There  could  he  no  risk  if  able  men  conducted  the  national  affairs.  Lord  %VESTMO  aLA  N  n  replied  in  support  of  Ministers  ;  after  sc  hieh  the  different  Motion  of  Thanks  were  agreed  to  nem.  dissent.  —Adjourned.  THVItSDAY,  J.LN.  26.  Gregson's  Divorce  Bill  was  read  a  first  time,  and  Lord  Bor Boringdon's  ingdon's Boringdon's  and  Campbell's  a  second  time.  OVERTUTIES  FROM  ERFURTII.  The  Earl  of  LI  v  rts  Moot.  rose  for  the  purpose  of  moving  an  Address  of  Thanks  to  his  Majesty,  for  having  communicated  the  papers  on  the  table.  He  was  not  aware  that  arty  objections  would  be  made  to  the  conduct  of  Ministers,  in  having  received  the  overtures  from  Russia  and  France  in  the  manner  they  did.  His  Majesty's  Ministers,  however,  had  laid  it  down  as  a  prin principle  ciple principle  of  their  government  to  meet  any  fair  proposition  of  toe  enemy,  at  any  period  of  the  war,  with  a  frank  and  ready  answer.  The  relations  that  had  lately  taken  place  be between  tween between  his  Majesty  and  the  Spanish  Government  were  uo  secret  to  France  and  Russia.  His  Majesty  demanded  to  kuow  it  Spain  would  be  admitted  as  a  party.  What  was  the  answer?  Why,  the  loyal  population  of  Spain,  fighting  for  the  legitimate  am amnarchy,  narchy, amnarchy,  the  independence  of  their  country,  and  every  thing  dear  to  man,  are  stigmatised  by  the  odious  epithet  the  Spanish  In 'Insurgents;'  and  all  pretensions,  either  for  them  or  from  them,  to  become  a  party  in  the  negaciatiou,  scoffed  at  and  ridiculed..  Under  these  circumstances,  he  could  not  conceive  there  could  be  any  difference  of  opinion  respecting  the  line  of  policy  which  his  Majesty's  Ministers  ought  to  have  pursued.  They  rejected  the  proffered  negotiation.  His  Lordship  concluded  with  express-  . STYLE=superscript  ing  his  deep  regret  that  the  Emperor  of  Russia  could  have  returned  such  an  answer  as  he  had  to  the  communication  front  our  Government,  and  that  he  should  have  so  far  lent  himself  to  the  passions  and  designs  of  France.  His  Lordship  then  read  the  Address,  towards  the  conclusion  of  which  the  wnrfnest  approba approbation  tion approbation  was  expressed  of  the  conduct  of  Government,  in  basing  re refused  fused refused  to  treat  unless  Spaiu  should  be  admitted  as  a  party  to  the  negot  Lord  t  tt  ISSI  VI  LLE  said,  he  had  before  stated  and  he  would  onw  state  again,  that  peace  was  not  to  be  expected  under  the  circumstances  in  which  that  overture  was  made.  The  posses•  sion  of  Spain  was  of  vita!  importance  to  Bonaparte.  It  was,  perhaps,  the  greatest  interest  for  which  he  bad  ever  contended.  Ile  knew  that  two  months  would  put  Into  his  power  that  country  which  Ministers  wished  to  make  a  subject  of  negotia negotiation„knd  tion„knd negotiation„knd  was  it  then  to  be  expected  that  IP;  would  give  away,  by  a  stroke  of  the  pen,  that  which  remainded  to  he  decided  by  the  force  of  arms  ?  He  did  not  find  fault  with  Ministers  for  not  abandoning  the  cause  of  Spain.  but  for  having  put  themselves  in  a  situation  not  to  be  able  to  negotiate  w  it  bout  bringing  in  Spain.  Lord  Elmo  N.  His  Lorthhip  could  no!  agree  with  the  Noble  I3aron  who  spoke  last,  that  Ministers  should  have  considered  the  Spanish  cause  as  one  of  absolnte  despair  from  the  commence commencement—that  ment—that commencement—that  it  was  a  struggle  which  could  not  possibly  last  above  two  months.  It  was  obvious,  from  the  answer  of  both  France  and  Russia,  that  whatever  peace  might  be  made  between  them  and  England,  d,  Spain  was  to  he  surrendered  to  the  former.  and  he  therefore  thought  the  wisest,  the  most  just,  and  magnanimous  policy  on  the  part  of  England,  was  $o  put  an  end  to  the  negotia negotiation  tion negotiation  as  soon  as  possible.  Viscount  S  wino  UTII  rejoiced  that  there  was  130  sacrifice  which  the  country  would  not  rather  make  than  consent  to  abandon  Spain  to  the  most  foul  usurpation  that  ever  polluted  the  pages  .  a  history.  The  Address  was  carried  nent.  con.  and  the  House  adjonrned.  110UbE  OF  COMMONS.  TUESDAY,  JANUARY  21'.  A  new  writ  was  ordeteil  for  the  election  of  a  member  for  the  County  of  Kilkenny,  in  the  room  of  the  lion.  Charles  Butler,  who  has  accepted  of  the  Chiltern  Hundreds.  COMMITTEE  OF  PUBLIC  EXPENDITURE.  The  CH  A  NCELLOR  of  the  , STYLE=superscript  EXCHEQUER  said  it  was  a  matter  of  notoriety,  mentioned  by  the  Ch,►irman  that  their  Reports  were  very  much  retarded  by  the  protracted  discussions  of  the  Nembers  who  compOsed  the  Committee,  a  xi  entertained  con-  Way  o}►iuious  upuu  the  objects  comtaitteds  o  their  cousidera•  JAN.  29.  tion.  The  Committee  which  had  been  formerly  appointed,  whereof  Mr.  flanks  was  Chairman,  consisted  of  25  Members,  and  had  been  selected  indiscriminately  froni  both  Ades  of  the  house;  he  wished  to  reduce  the  number  to  15,  but  by  no  means  to  exclude  those  Members  whose  political  opinions  differed  from  those  of  himself  and  of  his  friends.  He,  however,  felt  it  somewhat  invidious  to  mention  the  names  of  such  Mem Members  bers Members  as  should  be  excluded  from  the  Committee.  The  names  he  wished  to  form  the  new  Committee  were  the  following  :  Mr.  Banks,  Mr.  Hawkins  Browie,  Mr.  Leslie,  Lord  Henry  Petty,  Mr.  Henry  Thornton,  Mr.  Grattan  Mr.  Calvert,  Mr.  Dennisilrowne,  Mr.  P.  Carew,  Mr.  Diddulph,  Mr.  Wynne,  Mr.  Ellison.  Mr.  Leycester,  Mr.  Brogden,  Mr.  Jodderill,  On  the  question  being  put  by  the  SrE  Ktn,  Mr.  BANKS  said  from  the  manner  in  «bich  it  would  be  corn cornposed,  posed, cornposed,  be  did  not  conceive  that  its  labours  would  give  any  sa..  tisfactiots  to  the  public,  and  he  should  therefore  decline  having  any  concern  iu  it.  Mr.  PETER  MOORE  said,  the  establishment  of  the  Com Committee  mittee Committee  had  been  a  mere  farce  to  delude  the  people,  and  its  re.  commendations  had  never  been  attended  to.  In  one  report.  a  suggestion.was  made  relative  to  an  arrangement  with  the  Bank  'of  England  which  would  save  the  country  200,000/.  but  by  its  out  having  been  followed  up,  the  country  was  made  to  make  the  sum  up.  In  another  report  it  was  stated,  that  large  sums  of  ,enouey  bad  passed  through  the  bands  of  a  :‘lr.  Thomas  Steele,  formerly  a  Member  of  that  House,  and  that  he  had  appropri appropriated  ated appropriated  19.1001.  to  his  own  use  from  the  public  money,  yet  no  steps  had  been  taken  to  recover  it,  or  punish  the  delinquent,  as  ougiit  to  have  been  done  by  the  Attorney  Gelieral.  He  said  that  he  .  could  prove  that  large  sums  of  money,  which  were  raised  upon  the  people,  never  came  into  the  Exchequer  at  all,  and  he  pro pro'  ' pro'  mised  to  make  it  a  subject  of  parliamentary  investigation  tin  a  future  occasion.  Lord  HENRY  PET'S  If  said,  that  he  felt  it  his  duty  likewise  to  take  no  part  in  the  Committee.  -  Mr.  C.  LONG  said  to  them  we  were  indebted  for  the.  dimimi  tion  of  the  Bank  charges  on  the  management  of  the  funds  ;  be besides  sides besides  he  could  say,  that  all  the  regulations  recommended  by  the  Committee  had  been  adopted  in  the  Pay  Office;  and  he  had  brought  in  a  Bill  last  Session  for  the  very  purpose  of  enforcing  such  of  their  suggestions  as  required  legislative  interference.  Every  thing  suggested  with  regard  to  that  department  had  been  carried  into  etfect  (Here  111  r.  Moore  asked,  was  Mr.  Steele  prosecuted?)  The  Committee  had  not  recommended  any  such  prosecution,  they  had  only  stated  the  facts;  neither  was  it  his  business  to  prosecute  Mr.  Steele.  He  could  say,  however,  that  the  whole  of  the  money  for  which  Mr.  Steele  was  accountable,  had  been  repaid  with  interest.  Mr.  Cit  env  Ks  , STYLE=superscript  observed,  that  that  Gentleman  had  been  de detected  tected detected  in  the  very  fact  of  helping  himself  to  about  15,000/.  of  the  public  money  ;  and  yet  be  was  still  continued  a  Privy  Coun Counsellor,  sellor, Counsellor,  and  had  a  sinecure  of  &amp;opt  12  to  15001.  a  year.  (hear  !  hear  !)  Was  this  following  up  the  recommendation  of  the  Cora Coramittee  mittee Coramittee  ?  On  the  question  being  put  on  the  List  of  Names  for  the  Com.  mittee.  Mr.  Wit.n  Elt  ro  RCE  moved  au  adjournment.  Oa  the  division  there  appeared,  against  the  adjournment,  121—For  it,  62.  Another  division  took  place  on  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Banker  as  Chairman.  for  it,  Ilia--Against  it,  47.  WEDNMSDAY,  JAN.  259  INSOLVENT  DEBTORS.  .  _  Sir  THOMAS  TURTON  presented  a  petition  signet  by  2fil  prk  soners  in  the  King's  Bench.  The  Petition  was  received,,  read,.  and  ordered  to  lie-on  the  table.  MONUMENT  TO  SIR  J.  IoIOOILE,  AND  THANKS  TO  TTIE  CON•  •  QUENLORS  AT  CORUN  N  . STYLE=superscript  A.  Lord  C  ASTT.En  EiGir  said  wehad  to  lament  the  fall  of  an  indivi individual,  dual, individual,  whose  death,  from  his  distinguished  - STYLE=superscript  character,  his  military  exploits,  his  time  of  life,  and  his  promise  of  future  excel excellence,  lence, excellence,  was  to  be  lamented  as  one  of  the  gireatest  national  ca calamities  lamities calamities  (  Ilear  1.  hear  I)  It  was  in  some  degree  satisfactory  to  know,  that  though  wounded,  and  sensible  of  his  approaching  dissolution,  he  retained  his  mental  possession  and  strength  to  the  last  ;  that.  he  was  . STYLE=superscript  able  to  follow  up  the  transaction  he  had•ss  ably  planned  to  its  close,  and  to  learn  that  it  liad  been  attended.  P4_TB00018 P4_TB00019 .16"
