text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  HOUSE  OF  COMMONS,  alonday,  Feb.  20.  A  new  Writ  was  ordered  to  be  issued  for  the  Borough  of  St.  Mawes,  in  the  room  of  Lord  Vi6count  . STYLE=superscript  Ebrington,  who,  since  his  electiou,  had  accepted  a  commission  in  his  Mtijesty's  Forces.  Mr.  Sturges  Bourne  brought  up  the  Report  of  the  Donegal  Election  Committee,  that  Sir  Henry  Cunningham  Montgomery,  Bart.  was  duly  elected,  and  that  the  Petition  waa  not  frivolous  and  vexations.  General  Tarleton  pretented  a  Petition  from  Liverpool  against  the  Cam  Distillery  Prohibition'  Bill.  DUItE  OF  YoRX.  Dr.  Medealf  being  nose'  culled  to  the  7 STYLE=superscript  fler,  informed  the  Com Committee  mittee Committee  that  Mrs.  Clarke  'could  not  attend  the  summons  tif  the  House  from  indisposition.  Mr.  WICARTON.—How  long  do  you  imagine  that  this  indis indisposition  position indisposition  may  so  far  continue  as  to  iticapacitate  her  from  attend attending  ing attending  this]  Committee?  1)r.  Medcalf-  7  --Two  days.  (Dr.  Medcalf  was  here  ordered  to  withdraw.]  Mr.  Johnson  examined  by  the  CHAffeELLOR  of  the  Ex Exen  en Exen  EQUER.--Q.  In  what  situation  are  you,  Sir?  A.  An  Inspec Inspector  tor Inspector  of  Franks  in  the  Yost-office,  it  is  my  duty  to  make  ex examinations.---A).  aminations.---A). examinations.---A).  Look  at  the  small  paper,  and  look  at  the  let letters,  ters, letters,  and  then  answer,  whether  they  are  all  of  the  same  hand handwriting?  writing? handwriting?  A.  The  hand-writing  in  the  small  note  so  exactly  re resembles  sembles resembles  that  in  the  letters,  that  1  really  think  they  are  written  by  the  same  person.  Mr.  Serie  ealled.-r-Q.  What  is  your  situation,  Sir?  A.  A  De Deputy  puty Deputy  Inspector  of  franks—Q.  1S  teat  is  your  opinion  as  to  the  point,  whether  all  the  letters  are  in  the  hand-writimr  of  the  one  person?  A.  1  have  examined  them  all  very  carefully,  and  my  opinion  is,  that  the  note  and  the  letters  are  written  by  the  came  person.  _  _  Mr:  Nesbit  called.—Q.  What  are  you,  Sir?  A.  I  am  in  the  Letter  of  Attorney  Office  in  the  Hank—l  have  to  examine  from  .  forty  to  one  hundred  lett  e  r  s  d  a  il  y  ,  I  h  ave  l  oo  k  e  d  very  atten attentively  tively attentively  at  all  the  papers,  and  more  particularly  as  to  the  note,  and.afteeltaving  examined  them  all  very  particularly,.  and  the  note  almost  letter  by  letter,  my  opinion  is.  that  they  were  not  written  by  the  same  person.—Q.  What  are  the  grounds  of  that  opinion  ?  A..  The  note  is  in  a  murk  neater  band  ;  every  letter  m  ,reover,  seems  mere  laboriously  formed  and  stiffer.  The  ge general  neral general  character  of  the  note  is,  that  it  is  a  smaller,  in  a  neater,  and  in  a  more  formed  hand  than  the  letters  from  Sandgate  and  Weymouth.  Ido  not  hesitate  to  say  that  I  do  not  believe  the  note  to  be  in  the  hitad-writing  of  the  same  person  who  wrote  the  letters.  Mr.  Bateman  examined  by  the  Arro  RN  ry-fiEN  ER  A  L.-Q.  In  what  business  are  you  ?  A.  lam  employed  in  the  Bank  of  Af.ngl:ind  to  examine  powers  of  attorney,  first  as  to  the  regula regularity  rity regularity  of  them,  and  then  as  to  the  signatures.—Q.  Have  you  exa examimed  mimed examimed  those  two  letters  and  the  note,  for  the  purpose  of  ascer ascertwining'  twining' ascertwining'  whether  they  have  been  written  by  the  same  person  or  Dot  ?A.  I  have.—Q.  in  your  judgment,  were  they  written  by  the  same  person  ?  A.  There  is  a  very  corresponding  similarity  between  them.  The  next  witness  called  in,  was  Mr.  Bliss,  Inspector  of  Forg Forged  ed Forged  Bank  Notes  in  the  Bank  of  England.  Q.  Have  - STYLE=superscript  you  examined  the  notearmi  the  two  letters  now  put  in into  to into  your  hands,  for  the  purpose  of  discovering  whether  tliq-vvere  written  by  the  same  person  or  not  ?  A.  I  have.—Q.  Accord According  ing According  to  the  best  judgment  you  can  form,  are  they  or  not  written  by  the  same  person  ?  A.  I  should  suppose  they  were.  General  Ciavering  was,  at  his  own  desire,  called  into  cor correct  rect correct  part  of  the  evidence  he  had  before  given,  he  stated,  tbat  he  bad  never  any  personal  communications  with  Mrs.  Clarke,  on  the  subject  of  army  promotions,  and  that  he  was  convinced  Mrs;  Clarke  had  no  influence  over  the  Duke  of  York.  The  witness  then  underwent  a  very  long  examination  by  Mr.  Ward,  Mr.  Whitbread,  Mr.  Wynn,  Sir  Thomas  Torton  i  and  Aber  Members,  in  which  he  acknowledged  the  letters  to  be  his,  which  were  produced  by  Mrs.  Clarke.  He  denied  that  he  ever  made  more  than  two  •applications  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  both  of  *bleb  be  made  under  . STYLE=superscript  a  c4liviction  that  she  had  n  o  t  influence  to  other  was  not  ;MK  to  her  if  ;imeut:  and  the  which  he  could  relative  to  the  was  placed  upon.  l STYLE=superscript  Niko  w  ing  rAir  FEB.  26.  he  was  appointed  Brigadier-General,  but  shortly  after  to  his  surprise,  he  Was  reduced  to  the  rank  of  Brigade-Colonel.  This  circumstance  appeared  to  him  so  extraordinary,  that  he  wrote  to  Mrs.  Clarke  for  law  motion,  as  a  person  more  likely  to  communicate  speedy  intelligence  than  through  the  medium  of  the  war-office.  Mrs.  Clarke  only  informed  him,  that  the  oc occurrence  currence occurrence  arose  from  a  mistake,  but  she  could  explain  no  further..  The  witness  was  then  interrogated  very  closely  by  Mr.  Whit Whitbread  bread Whitbread  as  to  the  motive  which  had  induced  him  to  apply  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  when  he  wag  so  confident  she  had  not  sufficient  influence  with  the  Duke  of  York  ti  4  obtain  his  objects.  Mr.  Greenwood  and  Colonel  Gordon  were  again  examined,  as  was  Mr.  Adam,  who  corroborated  his  former  statement  respect respecting  ing respecting  the  note  supposed  to  be  destroyed  by  Sandon.  Benjamin  Town,  who  taught  Mrs.  Clarke  to  paint  on  velvet  was  again  examined,  and  stated  she  had  declared  she  was  in  the  habit  of  •  forging  the  Duke  of  York's  hand-writing.  Mr.  Par Parker,  ker, Parker,  the  pawn-broker,  was  questioned  as  to  goods  pawn pawned  ed pawned  by  Mm.  Clarke,  and  bills  discounted,  which  he  admitted,  and  said  the  hills  were  ultimately  paid  by  a  draft  of  the  Duke  of  York,  antedated  three  months.  —Adjourned.  Tuesday,  Feb.  el.  C  A  D  ETS  H  Mr.  Bankes  reported  from  the  Select  Committee,  appointed  to  enquire  into  the  corrupt  practices  in  disposing  of  writerships  and  cadetships  in  the  East  Indies,  that  .101  in  Annesley  Shee  had  been  guilty  of  gross  prevarication  before  the  Committee,  and  that  he  he,  fur  the  said  offence,  committed  to  the  custody  of  the  Ser.  jeant  at  Arms,  which  motion  was  agreed  to.  CONVENTION  OF  EIINTRA.  Lord  11.  PETTY  rose  to  call  the  attention  of  the  House  to  the  conduct  of  Ministers  in  the  expedition  to  Portugal.  The  Enquiry  he  must  contend  to  be  ;  the  tribunal  before  which  it  took  place  was  incompetent,  and  inconsistent  with  all  the  known  forms  of  law  and  equity  on  military  subjects.  The  Court  of  En.  ,  •  quiry  had  decided,  that  no  farther  military  proceedings  were  vie.  cesSary,  but  it  became  this  House  to  enquire  how  an  expedition,  the  commencement  of  which  had  been  conducted  with  valour  and  skill,  had  ultimately  terminated  in  mortification  and  disappoint disappoint'neut.  'neut. disappoint'neut.  Sir  A.  Wellesley  was  appointed  to  the  command  of  the  army  destined  for  the  support  of  the  Spaniards;  and  certainly  this  was  a  selection  that  formed  no  part  of  his  complaint,  but,  on  the  contrary,  must  have  met  the  universal  apprcrhation  of  the  country.  But  if  the  mere  possession  of  Lisbon  aml•Portagal  was  the  object,  it  was  certainly  one  of  doubtful  policy  ;  for  till  the  French  were  expelled  from  Spain,  such  possession  must  always  remain  insecure  ;  and  of  all  the  calamities  that  could  nillict  a  country,  that  of  merely  reconquering  it,  while  we  cannot  retain  it,  was  one  of  the  greatest.  Still,  however,  there  were  other  le legitimate  gitimate legitimate  objects  which  called  our  attention  to  Portugal;  there  was  a  French  army  shut  up  without  The  immediate  hope  of  re relief;  lief; relief;  there  was  a  Russian  fleet  cooped  up  in  the  pert  of  Lisbon  ?  The  FrenCh  army  was  cut  off  from  external  assistance,  and  sur surrounded  rounded surrounded  by  a  hostile  people.  Ministers  had  selected  a  • STYLE=superscript  Comman.  der  in  Chief  of  tried  abilities;  they  had  entrusted'  him  with  full•  discretionary  power  ;  was  it  not  hence  rational  to  conclude  that  he  would  have  been  continued  in  the  chief  command  till  the  ob object  ject object  wasaccomplished?  •  But  no  sock  thing—Sir  Arthur  Wel Wellesley  lesley Wellesley  had  not  left  Cork  three  days,  when  Sir  H.  Burrard•was  sent  ono  supersede  him  in  the  command,  and  uo  fewer  thausia  •  Generals,  all  superior  in  rank  to  the  gallant  Officer  who  'nos  originally  entruSted  to  •  the  command,  were  sent  to  the  same  des destination.  tination. destination.  •  Sir  Harry  Iltirrard  was  to  succeed  Sir  'A.  Wellesley  :and  the  former  was  as  speedily  replaced  by  Sir  H.  Dalrympie.;  Was  t  not  in  the  recollectiou  of  the  II  ouse,  that  in  Aina.  MT  the  Noble  Lord  had  boasted  that  he  had  transports  for4ooo  cavalry;  -and  yet,  when  perpetual  demands  of  cavalry  were  made  in  Po  rtu.  gal,t  herecould  only  be  found  transports  for  710.  The  •artillery  horses  were  also  in  the  worst  possible  state  :  we  qad  froin  Co).  Robe's  report,  that  they  were  mostly  either  sick,  !  lame,  blind  s  or  cast  olf  (a  &amp;ugh).  It  bad  even  been  said.  that  there  was  uo  occasiOn  for  good  horses  in  Portugal.  Wilh  re,gard  to  pro pro'  ' pro'  visions  for  the  army,  the  Noble  Lord  trusted  to  supplies  from  Portugal.  •a  country  where,  as  Sir  A.  Welles))  , STYLE=superscript  had  said  ?  •no  supply  of  bread  could  be  had,  and  which  ralsed•cdrn  for  only  seven  'months  of  its  own  consumption.  One  General  was  appointed  to  commence,  a  second  to  conduct,  and  a  third  to  cotiplete  the  expedition.  The  Noble  Lord  then.  proceeded  to  consider  the  Articles  of  tile  Armistice,  and  Convention  of  Gintra.  From  the  procee4iiip  sari  the  Luqoiry,  it  seetnq  to  be  the  (vi  z  .  nion  of  the  General:  , STYLE=superscript  that  ttttse  arttats  were  defensible;  from  the  P4_TB00015 obtain  them.  The  one  he  dicliot,;ict;i;;;Tth,'  within  her  inil  alypl  c  TkiN.  eiewas  an  offer  of  1  she  could  01  ,-  - STYLE=superscript  .  •  1  ,  L  1  ;  i  lea  new  rrgi  secoldnp.,  ',.  1 STYLE=superscript  7  5y  ,:  7 STYLE=superscript  7  64 STYLE=superscript  ;  11 STYLE=superscript  '  ~..,  '  o  e  ..k-  13  ,  .  ormation  %I  slat  toll  in  , STYLE=superscript  -be  a  s  :  1 STYLE=superscript  31  10tr.k....-41110-r1,4.1..4,-e.  ••  •  ,,80.1,  h  e  wi  ;  %.4  ..,  .01  ;  •  od  iu  the  ~,  s STYLE=superscript  b.  .  fie..  V  4,  .to‹.  — STYLE=superscript  3.  -.  .  ''•Of  `  •I'•  -&gt;  'O  l STYLE=superscript  •  r  '  W  --, STYLE=superscript  '&#34;&#34;r(f'..,'‹  '  •  -&gt;,  1.  - STYLE=superscript  .1441  - STYLE=superscript  XLC  •.7  ''  *-  4"
