text
"TIIE  NATIONAL.  REGISTER.  CUSTOMS'  CONSOLIDATION  BILL.  The  House  having  resolved  itself  into  a  Committee,  The  CuANCFLLOR  of  the  Extnuitocrt  proposed  to  the  Committee  to  extend  the  principle  of  consolidating  the  duties,  and  removing  all  fractional  parts  in  the  collection  of  them,  ;  , STYLE=superscript  y  raising  the  duties  in  such  case,  to  the  next  integral  number.  Ile  Wished  that  this  systeM,  frog  which  much  benefit  had  been  de derived,  rived, derived,  by  Its  introduction  into  the  collection  of  the  taxes,  which  rormed  the  consoliaated  fund,  should  be  also  extended  to  the  war  taxes,  which  were  now  about  a  third  part  of  the  amount.  _Among  a  number  of  regulations  which  he  mentioned,  he  pro proposed  posed proposed  to  place  Spanish  and  Portuguese  tobacco  on  an  equality,  in  point  of  duties,  with  tobacco  coming  froth  any  other  place.—  lie  also  proposed  raising  the  duty  on  Turkey  carpets  according  to  their  size,  on  which  their  actual  value  principally  depended.  Ile  also  should  propos  - STYLE=superscript  ea  greater  equality  on  the  duties  of  brim brimbtone,  btone, brimbtone,  whether  it  came  in  the  rough  state,  in  roll.,  or  in  flour.  Ile  calculated  that  by  the  dillerent  regulations  which  he  wobld  propose,  the  Revenue  would  gaiit  about  220,00  W.  a  year,  120,0001.  of  Which  would  he  from  the  alteration  of  the  system.  in  the  collection  of  the  war  taxes.  He  then  proposed  some  Resolutions  hi  that  effect  in  the  Com Committee)  mittee) Committee)  n  hick  were  agreed  to.  Adjourned.  Wednesday,  March  20.  REFORM  IN  PARLI  ANENT.  Mr.  MADDOCK:4  gave  notice  that  he  would,  after  the  Easter  recess,  bring  forward  a  proposition  on  the  subject  of  reform  in  the  representation  of  the  Commons  in  Parliament.  A  new  writ  was  ordered  to  be  issued  for  the  election  of  a  Member  to  serve  in  Parliament  for  Newport,  in  the  ISle  of  Wight,  in  the  room  of  Sir  Arthat  Wellesley,  who  has  accepted  the  Chiltern  11  undreds.  DILL,  ran.  THE  AMENDMENT  OF'  THE  BANKRupT  t.A*5.  Sir  S_t.MUet.  ROItIt,LI  moved  the  Order  of  the  Day  for  the  Peen  ad  reading  of  the  above  bill.  M  r..  1  AColi  rose  and  said,  he  approved  of  the  bill  ;  at  the  came  tune  he  did  not  think  it  went  far  enough.  It  was  a  singu singular  lar singular  phenomenon  that  the  Commissioners  had  power  to  sumrtion  a  banhrupt  confined  under  a  simple  process,  and  had  not  that  power  when  he  was  confined  tinder  an  execution.  Ile  then  al  luded  to  a  circumstance  of  commissioners  being  lately  obliged  to  go  to  Hull,  to  receive  the  surrender  of  a  bank  rupt,  lie  beieg  con confined  fined confined  under  an  execution.  He  then  adverted  to  the  small  com comy.nisation  y.nisation comy.nisation  allowed  to  commissioners  for  their  daily  attendance  on  each  commission,  which  caused  them  to  appoint  the  one  day  to  hear  a  great  number,  which  made  Guildhall,  during  their  sittings,  More  like  a  bear-garden  than  a  Court  . STYLE=superscript  of  Judiciary.  Sir  S.  Roar  Lt.'s  - STYLE=superscript  said,  if  the  House  had  any  objection,  he  would  be  happy  to  hear  every  suggestion  and  it•struction.  As  to  the  Commissioners  not  having  power  to  summon  Bankrupts  confined  tinder  execution,  it  was  his  intention,  when  in  Committee,  to  propose  a  clause,  giving  them  that  power.  lie  never  professed  the  Bill  would  remme  all  the  defectg  of  the  Bankrupt  Laws:  He  never  was  knight-errant  sufficient  to  suppose  he  had  ability  to  remove  them.  lie  conclude:l  by  saying,  he  would  feel  happy  in  the  assistance  of  any  Gentleman  who  would  bear  part  of  the  labour  and  trouble  with  hitn,  to  make  the  Bill  more  com complete.  plete. complete.  The  Bill  then  read  a  zecund  time,  and  ordered  to  be  committed  this  day  fortnight.  Adj  o  u  rued.  Thursday,  March  ;W.  Howse  adjourned  to  Tuesday  se'nuight.  ,S7'  1  3 STYLE=superscript  _1  PE  It.  TREATY  OF  PEACE,  FRIEND:AIM',  AND  AI  LIAN'CE,  BE BETW  TW BETW  ,1  HIS  BRITANNIC  MAJESTY  AND  ills  CA74IOLIC  MAJESTY  FERDINAND  vu.  stancp  AT  LONDON  THE  I4TII  OF  JANUARY,  1809.  in  the  Name  of  the  Most  Holy  and  Undivided  Trinity.  The  event;  which  have  taken  place  in  Spain  having  terminated  the  state  of  hostility  which  unfortunately  sttbsisted  between  the  Crowns  of  great  Britain  and  Spain,  and  united  the  arms  of  both  against  the  common  enemy,  it  seems  good  that  the  new  relations  which  nave  been  produced  between  two  nations,  now  connected  by  common  interest,  should  he  regularly  established  and  cot:-  Armed  by  a  formal  Treaty  of  Poate,  Frieni  , STYLE=superscript  hip  and  alliance  :  Witt:refine.  his  tae  hint.  of  the  Cnited  kingdom  of"
