text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  VIENNA,  mAncu  .11.  PROCLAMATION  OF  THE  ARCHDUKE  CHARLES.  We,  Charles  Lewis,  Imperial  Prince  of  Austria.  Royal  Irrince  of  Hungary  and  Bohemia,  Archduke  of  Austria,  and  Generalissimo  of  the  whole  Imperial  and  Royal  Army.  Our  beloved  Monarch  summons  all  those  of  his  subjects  who  ere  not  by  law  obliged  to  repair  to  the  standing  army,  to  unite  themselves  in  battalions,  in  order  to  serve  their  country  beyond  the  boandaries  of  the  hereditary  dominions,  in  case  it  should  be  menaced  by  an  enemy.  When  iu  the  year  1500  the  country  was  in  danger,  I  called  nut,  in  the  name  of  the  Monarch,  the  Volunteers  of  Bohemih  and  Moravia.  Thousands  soon  united  to  form  ale  ion  s  w  hica  bore  ms'  name;  and  this  leg  ion  would  soon  have  grown  to  an  army,  if  a  sudden  peace  had  not  put  an  end  to  these  exertions.  It.  is  mit  necos•zary  to  appeal  to  the  acts  of  your  amcestors—  how  many  perils  they  withstood  through  fortitude  and  patriotism.  I  appeal  to  yourselves.  Ye  are  still  witat  ye  were  in  the  year  1800.  The  same  courage  and  patriotism  which  inspired  you  then,  inspire  you  now.  1  . STYLE=superscript  reckon  now,  as  then,  upon  your  arm.  Some  of  you  arc  prohibited  from  abandoning  your  dwelling  s  in  obedience  to  the  voice  of  honour,  by  domestic  incidents  and  occurrences.  But  these  will  still  remain  for  the  protection  of  the  interior  of  the  empire,  the  preservation  of  property,  and  the  maintenance  of  .!•ood  order.  But  those  who  are  not  fixed  to  their  paternal  hearths  by  ether  duties  and  relations,  are  to  form  themselves  into  battalions,  and  may  lay  claim  to  all  those  advantages  which  our  beloved  Sovereign  has  attached  to  this  patriotic  DECREE  RELATIVE  TO  AMERICAN  SHIPS,  DATED  FEBRUARY  Napoleon  the  First,  Emperor  of  France,  King  of  Italy,  and  Protector  of  the  Confederation  of  the  Rhine,  have  decreed,  and  do  decree  as  follows  :--  Aar.  1.  The  American  ships  detained  in  the  ports  of  the  Em Empire,  pire, Empire,  in  consequence  only  of  the  Embargo,  may  set  sail  to  return  directly  to  the  United  States,  but  this  favour  is  not  to  extend  to  vessels  seized  in  consequence  of  irregular  papers  or  other  causes.  1L  The  ships  from  which  the  Embargo  is  taken  shall  be  pot  at  the  di-p►+sition  of  General  Armstrong,  Minister  and  .  tentiary  from  the  United  States,  to  seeurc  the  direct  return  of  those  vessels  to  that  country.  Their  departure  shall  nut  take  place  till  they  have  given  security,  and  received  certificates  from  our  consuls,  vice  consuls,  or  agents  of  commerce  in  France  and  America,  that  the  said  cargoes  contain  but  territorial  or  manu manufactured  factured manufactured  productions  of  our  Empire,  and  that  there  i=  nothing  in  them  produced  by  the  colonies  or  commerce  of  England.  111.  Our  Ministers  of  Foreign  Relations  are  charged  each,  in  as  much  as  it  concerns  him,  with  the  execution  of  this  Decree.  Another  Decree,  of  the  game  date,  contains  in  substance,  that  the  confiscated  American  vescels,  whose  sale  will  take  place  on  the  part  of  the  llapire,  may  be  bought  ou  foreign  account,  on  pav paving  ing paving  a  duty  of  15  francs  per  ton.  IREL.IND.  CARRICKFLEWUS  ASSIZES.  PA  Itt.  Or  11.1SSEREEN!  v.  G  17011.0  17, STYLE=superscript  DORAN,  AND  THE  corN-  T  F.SS  OF  NIASSCREENE,  HIS  WIFE.  -  ----  -  This  important  cause  came  on  to  be  tried  before  the  Hon.  Juctice  Osborne,  and  a  Jury  of  the  County  of  Antrim,  en  Mon Monday.  day. Monday.  the  '2oth  tilt.  The  Plaintiff  claimed  the  estate  as  heir  at  law  of  the  late  Earl  Ma,,ereene.  The  Defendants  claimed,  under  the  will  of  the  late  Earl  ;  and  the  substantial  question  to  be  determined  was,  the  sanity  of  the  testator  at  the  Cm?  of  making  it.  It  appeared  from  the  evidence  or  both  sides,  that  the  late  Lord  Massareene  was  a  man  of  very  weak  judgment,  and  that  his  conduct  on  many  occasions  , STYLE=superscript  was  Filch  as  to  exhibit  stronr  symptoms  of  lunacy.  Tois  trial  lastelTACiatiVo  tfa-y.  - STYLE=superscript  The  Jury  was  allowed  to  ad adjoun  joun adjoun  to  Wednesday,  ihen  they  found  a  verdict  for  the  Plain Plaintiff.  tiff. Plaintiff.  The  following.  arm?  . STYLE=superscript  other  curious  evidf-oce,  (mimed  Lord  ond  Lady  Mascarene  ISO?.  She  recollected  an  the  death  of  a  dog.  When  took  it  out  in  a  carriage  in  then  brought  it  home,  took  Fad  lamentation.  Witine  went  in  to  know  what  was  the  matter;  sbe  beheld  the  dog  lying  on  the  carpet,  Lady  M.  on  her  knees  weeping  over  it,  and  Lord  M.  by  her  side  consoling  her.  His  Lordship  then  took  the  dog  in  his  arms  and  carried  it  to  tut  open  window  to  give  it  a  little.  air—after  some  time  he  brought  it  in  and  laid  it  again  on  the  carpet;  lady  M.  exclaimed  the  dog  was  dying  fast,  It  was  air..  minty  gone.  His  Lordship  assured  her  that  it  was  not,  end  told  her  that  he  had  seen  many  people  die,  but  that  was  not  the  way  they  died  ;  and  in  order  to  convince  her  that  the  dog  was  not  so  near  death  as  she  supposed,  he  wtoitd  shew  her  the  manner  in  which-  people  commonly  died  ;  he  then  stretched  himself  on  the  carpet,  continued  quiet  for  a  little  time,  then  turned  himself  from  side  to  side,  began  to  distort  his  features,  stare  with  his  eves,  throw  about  his  arms,  work  himself  into  the  appearance  of  convulsions,  and  then  expire.  This  scene  being  done,  he  returned  to  Lady  M.  and  the  dog.  The  N  1  ..7;  then  left  them  and  retired  to  her  own  room.  In  the  mornin,  'he  found  all  the  family  in  extreme  distress,  for  the  dog  was  actually  dead;  the  carcase  was  fuliered  to  remain  some  time  in  the  drawing-roam,  and  towards  the  evening  was  carried  into  the  bed-room  of  Mrs.  O'  Duran  to  he  waked,  next  day  a  number  of  people  came  to  her  house,  among  whom  was  a  plumber  with  a  lead  coffin  for  the  dog,  and  a  carpenter  with  an  outer  shell.  The  plumber's  ac account  count account  was  4/.  lls.  When  the  carcase  was  put  into  the  coffin,  a  car  was  procured  to  carry  it  to  Antrim  Castle,  and  positive  orders  were  given  that  fifty  dogs  shoal  attend  the  funeral  in  white  scarfs,  and  that  all  the  dogs  of  the  parish  should  also  be  .  present.  Cross-examined  by  Mr.  EGAN.  Mr.  E.—Pray  Ma'am,  I  think,  if  I  am  not  mistaken,  that  you  were  married  before  to  one  Kellie,  a  fidler  ?  Mrs.  S.—And  pray,  Mr.  Egan,  what  has  that  to  do  with  this  matter  ?  lam  not  ashamed  of  having  been  married  to  Mr.  Kellie.  Mr.  E.—Oh  not  in  the  least,  Ma'am,  it  has  certainly  nothing  to  do  in  this  matter  at  all,  but  some  how  or  other  it  very  foolish•  Iy  came  into  my  head,—Pray,  Ma'am,  may  I  take  the  liberty,  I  think  you  were  once  on  the  stage,  and  I  have  a  fuint  recol•  lection  of  your  theatrical  talents.  Mrs.  S.—And  what  matter  of  that  though  I  have  been  on  the  stage--you  are  very  gross.  Mr.  L.—indeed,  Ma'am,  I  must  confess  I  am  gross  all  over  ;  there  certainly  is  no  matter  whether  you  have  been  on  the  stage  •  or  not;  so  that  after  burying  the  fidler,  you  have  now  married  the  apothecary.  I  wonder  it  was  possible  that  you  could  have  persuaded  him  to  poison  the  dog;  but  upon  my  life,  Ma'atn.  I  think  if  you  had  not  quitted  the  stage  , STYLE=superscript  the  death  of  the  4,;g  would  have  afforded  an  excellent  subjeet  for  a  drama,  in  which  you  might  have  made  your  fortune.  Mrs.  S.—Mr.  Egan,  what  do  you  mean  ?  Mr.  E.--Oh  Ma'am,  1  mean  nothing  at  all,  but  permit  me  to  go  on  to  describe  how  charmingly  the  scene  would  have  been  ;  there  we  would  have  had  the  dear  little  dog  lying  on  the  carpet,  and  Lady  Massareene  weeping  over  it;  then  we  would  have  had  lihrd  Mastiareene  weeping  over  Lady  M.  ;  nest  we  would  have  •had  the  waking  of  the  dog,  and  last  of  all  the  interesting  exhi exhibition  bition exhibition  or  the  funeral,  attended  by  50  dog  s  in  white  scarfs  ;  what  a  rich  collection  of  incidents  this STYLE=superscript  would  have  been.  '  Mr.  S.—Mr.  Egan,  you  are  very  rude.  Mr.  E.—Upon  my  life,  Ma'am,  I  Cannot  help  it,  I  well  re recollect  collect recollect  your  first  appearance.  Mrs.  S.—So  do  I,  sir,  when  yon  upon  a  certain  occasion  for  , STYLE=superscript  not  your  12)  t  crown.  n  Mr.  E  ---Oh  yes,  Ma'am,  such  things  sometimes  happen,  and  we  do  really  wish  to  forget  them  ;  but  I  was  only.  expressing  my  regret  that  you  should  have  left  the  stage,  when  you  might  have  made  your  fortune.  Mrs.  S.—Yes,  Sir,  if  I  had  continued  on  the  stage  and  pos..  sensed  half  your  effrontery,  I  might  perhaps  have  otade  toy  fora  tune;  hut,  Sir,  Wbea  you  speak  of  my  former  husband  Kellie  f  I  must  tell  you,  that  whatever  hardships  attended  his  fortune  in  life,  I  cheerfully  have  shared  theta  with  him.  Mr.  L.—Madam,  yois  may  go  down-1  have  no  more  quel-  tiUlll.  The  following  Provincial  Towns  have  voted  Thanks  to  Mr.  Wardle  for  his  patriotic  exertions  during  the  investiga investigation  tion investigation  Of  the  libuses  relative  to  military  promotions  ;  Vl7. STYLE=superscript  Gloucester,  with  the  freedom  of  that  city  t  Deal  ;•  and  Bedford,  Ivith  the  freedom  of  that  tosln,  P4_TB00013 J  lIU  s  ..•  .  .  31r.t.  Socve  of  Dubl  in,  that  ctiatte  to  I'  c  *se  ithe  ye:sr  ...-  q  f  t  atras  ,- STYLE=superscript  ,`  i  .\  *tee  s  erting  t  .  no  A  '  414( STYLE=superscript  '  ..  10“  . STYLE=superscript  •  •  ....  et  If  &#34;'  '  .  4 STYLE=superscript  •  1- STYLE=superscript  ..„,.  .f  ite  ors.  •  i•  1  111 STYLE=superscript  -  - STYLE=superscript  '  4 STYLE=superscript  t  , STYLE=superscript  i  t STYLE=superscript  '  4 STYLE=superscript  s  7 STYLE=superscript  •  '  '  -  -  -r  , STYLE=superscript  f  s•,*  ••  •  Vf  L  Pt  1 STYLE=superscript  •  '..,  1%  -.  ..  •  •  •C  a  '  -  '  -.---:•—•  -  :  :VA  .  -&#34;'  '  --  1  4.  v  •  __  ,  &lt;„,  ..:  ..„.  t  ,  :.•  liej.,  P4_TB00014 lot  recol•  en  on  the  all  over  ;  the  stage  r  married  ould  have  ita'atn.  1  the  tbg  in  which  mit  me  to  lye  been  ;  is  carpet,  have  had  ould  have  tingexhi-  rfii  ;  what  I  well  re-  !mina  for•  ppen,  and  expressing  you  might  •  e  and  pos..  de  my  for•  ,m  1  fortune  in  nore  quel-  Thanks  to  investiga-  ions  ;  Vl7•  k  Deal  ;."
