text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  The  Llll  sr  f  v  POOL  said,  that  the  Treaty  would  he  sub-  , STYLE=superscript  mined  to  tneir  Lordships  as  soon  as  the,  ratifications  were  ex exchan:!ed.  chan:!ed. exchan:!ed.  ire  ofiserred,  nu  eves-t  had  happened  to  make  any  difference  in  it►;  stipulations;  and  al.°,  that  no  event  had  occur occurred  red occurred  which  ought  to  cause  a  ditll'rence  in  the  exertions  which  it  would  have  been  proper  for  this  country  to  make  in  assisting  Spain  against  the  common  enemy.—Adjourued.  FaIDA  Y,  FEU.  3.  IMPRISONMENT  FOR  DEBT.  The  Earl  of  Mo  tax  gave  notice  for  Thursday  of  his  motion  for  a  Coininitten  to  rousicler  the  practice  of  Imprisontucnt  for  Debt.—Adjourned  till  oodny.  HOUSI:  Of  N.I.IIONS.  TUESD  %N  I  JAN.  31.  DEBTORS.  Sir  S.  ROMILLY  rose,  pursuant  to  notice,  to  move  for  leave  to  bring  in  a  Bill  to  extend  the  provisions  of  the  32d  of  Kin  George  the  Second,  commonly  called  the  Lords  Act,  to  persons  confined  for  uon-paymeut  of  small  fines  imposed  fur  contempt  of  Courts  of  Equity.  S  5  did  •it  siia  ing  iiet  o  ••  -  the  suite  •uf  the  Ron's*  Cashel  - STYLE=superscript  Wet  . STYLE=superscript  -  Ireland  ;Anat  . STYLE=superscript  6  r  * STYLE=superscript  Irish  Catholics  Were  rebels  or  not,  then-  were  the  laWfut  subjects  to  a  Monarch  complete  in  his  righti  and  per  Vet  iss  •  possession.  Was  the  sincerity  Freoch  Ruler  to  be  de.:  •  petaled  upon,  even  if  this  country  'bad  delayeeite'comnrunieos-  •  tinny  with  respect  to  the  Spanish  'nation?  riference  to  the  dlttes  will  prove  that  no  dependence  could  be  pluce•!.  On'  the  red  of  October  the  first  overture  from  France  receivitd  ;  off  that  day  sennight  the  answer  at  the  •British  .Gove  rn  ment  was STYLE=superscript  (tatted,  a  nd  subsequent  information  has  kroved,  that  am  the  Vstli„  ,  Bonaparte  acquainted  the  Legislative  Irodst.that  he  was  about  'hi  set  off  for  Spain,  in  order  to  crown  his  brother  at  .Madrid:---  Hence  it  was  certain  ,  that  he  had  actually  departed  w'  to  renew'  hostilities,  ag  ainst  the  Spanish  people,  before  he  could  vossiblg  be  apprised  of  the  British  answer  to  his  overture.  Spain,  in  defence  of  her  just  right:,  would  ,make,  no  compromise  'Or  the  •  possible  advrininges  which  usurpation  may  bring.  There  was..  no  polish  that  she  could  expect  from  foreign  s.lbjugation,  equivalent  for  her  violated  independence.  The  Met  'Hon,  (ientleinat,  concluded  by  moving  au  Address  to  his  Majesty.  de dedaring  daring dedaring  the  concurrence  of  that  House  in  the  gracious  answer  the  overtures  from  the  Russian  and  French  Goveroinents.  •  •  •  Mr.  Whitbread  rose,  and  complimented  the  Right  llonottr llonottrable  able llonottrable  :,ieniietuan,  not  only  on  the  eloqueoce  which  he  had  dish  placed,  but  on  his  having  stated  some  axioms  of  Government,  which  did  not  usually  come  from  that  silie  of  the  House,  and,  which,  if  acted  upon  sixteen  years  ago,  the  balance  of  Europe  would  not  have  been  disturbed.  •‘  We  carte  to  take,  t  s  lic  government  of  a  country  as  the  people  presented•  was  as  true  a  maxim  in  politics,  as  any  proposition  in  mathematics,  he  recollected,  however,  when  those  woo  supported  it  were  brand branded  ed branded  and  overwhelmed,  amid  the  enthusiasm  that  led  to  the  Freqclt  war.  lie  agreed,  that  after  iheauhwer  returned  by  Bouatiarte,  it  was  impossible  to  recede  consistent!)  w  ith  onr_  natamil.llot.  noun  and  dignity,'  but  contended  that  that  .aiiiYer  %ad  been'proi  .  yoked  by  the  iii-placed  taunts  coinaiued  in  the  official  note  sent  by  Mr.  Canniug,  and  the  arrogance  displayel,,b)  our  Govern Government.  ment. Government.  We  ought  not  to  think  .  that  Providence  confined  atrocities  to  particular  regions  or  places,  but  recollect  that  we  had  last  session  voted  that  similar  atroeities.  cammated  irl  ,  India  Were  fur  'the  honour  of  the  British  ,nation.  If  'we  were  bigotted  to  this  opinion  of  our  national  rectitude,  we  dezeivea  ourselves,  and  tire  truth  was  not  in  (A  laugh.)  was  sorry  to  be  thus  scored  at,  but  Government  'durst  not  pursUe  their  iniquitous  measures,  were  they,  not  supported  by  those  who  were  blind  to  their  wrong  s.  We  should  pursue  the  system  of  honour  in  the  North  as  in  th  e  Last  we  recommended  to  others,  and  not  brand  . STYLE=superscript  Bonaparte  with  unparalleled  atrocities,  as  if  we  had  forgot  all  history,  and,  eyeu  that  which  had,passed  in  our  own  days  as  if  we  had  forgot  the  atrocities  which.had  been  perpetrated  by  Spaiu.and  by  ouEselves,  so  very  lately  on  Spain:  Ile  censured  w  hat  had  fallen  from  :Mr.  C:  res'picting  the  tmperok  Alexander's  feelings  as  a'  matt,  and  thought  4  was  hard  to  re reproach  proach reproach  him  for  actin;  in  a,  manner  he  was  .  eompelled'to  do,  from  the  situation  of  degradation  in  which  he  had  been  placed,  friina  joining,  as  induced  by  us,  the  coalition  of  ISOS.  •We  were-hat  a  now  fighting  for•  the  rights'  of  Sovereigns,  but  that  the  Goveru  7  went  chosen  by  the  Spanish  people  might  pro  ail..  At  ally  rate,  but  for  th  e  petulanie  of  Nlinisters,  the  late  O  vertur  es  might  have  .  been  broken,  oil',  without  exciting  that  spirit  of  rancour  and  •••  hostility  their  Mode  of  conduct  hati  left.  Ile  blamed  Mr.  C.  for  •  .  putting  into  his  Majesty's  mouth  sentiments  unworthy  a  Christian  Country,  to  a  Christian  World,  by  saying,  he  was  rejoiced  to.,  •  find  that  the  commercial  evils  de  signed  against  hitt  people•were  •  •  .  retorted  on  the  enemy.  .As  our  regtklat  ion  had  brought  no  Muni-  .  halloo  upon  Bimaparte,  as  they  had  not  raised  a  single  morrner  •  against  Linn,  it  was  only  rejoicing  in  the  misery  of.  a  '  K  iak  *  which  did  us  no  goad.  It  was  also  false  to  say,  that  the  war.  •  was  entered  into  in  self  defence  , STYLE=superscript  m  id STYLE=superscript  co STYLE=superscript  n  tinued STYLE=superscript  because STYLE=superscript  no•oppor.:—  tunity  of  concluding.  an  honourable  peace  had  been  •  He  maintained  the  proper  course  would  have  been  to  infer  oe-  , STYLE=superscript  '  fi  broke  - STYLE=superscript  oat  i't  Spain;  lied  I  .  •,  -  ,  t  4  .."
