text
"- STYLE=superscript  „,SUNDAY,  APRIL  23,  1809.  •.:  4.  t  ..  _  •  POLITICAL  DlSQl;l§rtioN.  ktIMBER.  SIXTY-SEVEN.  RELATIONS  OF  ARIERICA.  The  relations  between  America  and  England  become  so  critical,  and  may  eventually  lead  to  such  important  issues,  that  it  is  incurpbent  upon  us  to  cater  into  some  detail  upon  a  subject  so  generally  interesting.  There  is  something  very  peculiar  in  the  _general  relative  situation  of  America  and  England.  The  two  countries  have-the  same  language,  the  same  general  habits,  and  we  might.  almost  say,  the  same  mind  and  understanding.  The  Americans  are  not  of  the  common  stock,  without  participating  at  the  same  time  in  something  of  the  common  nature.  It  is  .the  characteristic  pride  of  Englishmen  to  think  and  speak  contemptuously  of  other  countries,  and  perhaps,  as  compared  with  our  own,  this  contempt  may  not  be  altogether  so  unreasonable  as  it  may  at  first  appear  ;  but,  to  use  a  vulgar  expression,  it.  I  would  be  defiling._:  our  own  nest,  to  feel  or  express  a  similar  contempt  of  the  Americans.  With  some  peculiar  I  national  habits  superinduced,  they  are  generally  the  same  with  ourselves;  they  have  the•  same  sensibility  under  in insult---they  sult---they insult---they  have  the  same  vices,  and  the  same  virtues.  Our  political  relations  with  America  may  he  considered  t  under  three  heads:—their  origin,  their  actual  state,  and  their  probable  results.  With  respect  to  the  origin'  of  the  present  relative  state  of  America  and  England,  it  may  be  briefly  observed,  that  the  hostile  feeling-  in  the  governments  of  the  two  people  I  are  coeval  with  the  American  Revolution.  Nations  have  I  their  pride,  •as  well  as  individuals.  We  cannot  forget  that  1  America  was  once  our  subject  ;  the  remembrance  rankles  ,  in  our  mind,  and  corrupts  all  the  benevolent  humours  of  our  temper.  We  see  nothing  in  America  but  a  successNl  repel,  and  her  present  tone  of  equality,  as  compared  with  her  former  relations  as  a  dependency,  have  to  us  the  ap appearance.  pearance. appearance.  of.  insolence.  America,  on  the,  other  hand,  feels  naturally  indignant  that  we  refuse  hec  the  rank  and  esti-  Illation  which  belong  to  her;  and  from  this  state  of  feel feelill,  ill, feelill,  and  indeed  of  mutual  acting,  between  the  two,  it  cannot  be  denied,  that  America  and  England  have  uever  been  amicable  at  heart.  The  conduct  of  the  PITT  Minis Ministry,  try, Ministry,  moreover,  which  was  so  long  in  power,  still  further  aggravated  this  original  ill-leven  ;  they  almost  laboriously  insulted  America  even  in  their  diplomatic  appointments.  Those  men,  who  have  been  termed  American  Loyalists— Loyalistscertainly  certainly Loyalistscertainly  a  very  honourable  and  respectable  class,  but  certainly  too,  tot  men  to  be  in  favour  with  the  American  Republican  Government—these  men  wore  appointed  as  Consuls,  Envoys,  and  Ambassadors.  Their  conduct  was  such  a  reisht  have  been  expected  ;  they  ostentatiously,  and  sumetlines  outrageously,  adopted  the  most  haughty  tone,  and  avenged  their  former  misfortunes  by  their  pre pregent  gent pregent  contempt.  The  actual  relations  of  America  and  Great  Britsia  have  rot.  11.—Ac."
