text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  MARCH  19.  John  GAHM)  Werninek,  Plymouth-D.ok,  merchant,  at  twelve,  tit  the  Commercial  Inn,  rlytnonth.—Ma  16.  Thomas  Godden,  Illuichaufle,  Kent,  carpenter,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall,  London.  CLIITIFICATr.i.—Aran.  8.  William  Parser);  'Meeker,  liasingball-street,  London,  and  Sa Samuel  muel Samuel  Denman,  Philadelphia,  North  America,  Inerchatitc.-  4k-orge  Haunter,  Catnnridge-Ileail:,  i‘lidcllcwx,  merchant.  —  Daniel  Welty,  Birmingham,  tailor.-30,eph  Pitnblot,  Mac Maclesfield,Cheshire,  lesfield,Cheshire, Maclesfield,Cheshire,  grocer.---Laorence  NV  Illiams,  Nicholtti-lane,  merchant.—John  Bell,  I.l%erpool,  triaster-mariner.—Stepheu  Hunt,  Crondall,  Southampton,  tanner.-.)-W  illiorn  Boucher,  Bir Birmingham,  mingham, Birmingham,  toy  maker.  :~.  189  '291  anti  199.  Mr.  W.tnn  t:s  titirtss  was  ::fier  war  tis  negat  by  a  majority  of  211.  However  1  . STYLE=superscript  24  Metnhers  of  the  110u3e  of  Commons,  most  of  than  unemmected  with  party,  were  of  opi-  Lion  that  the  DL  Kt:  of  - STYLE=superscript  1011  K  was  guilty  of  corruption  or  wane  vi:  nee.  The  debate  on  the  resolution  proposed  by  the  CifANCl:t.t.o%  of  the  Exc  n  r.Q  La,  which  declarest  that  there  is  no  groom,  for  charging  the  Ito  VAL  MK  with  1  , STYLE=superscript  PrIM:11  corruption,  or  a•ett-)  nivacce  at  the  practices  disclosed  before  the  Committee,  took  place  on  Friday.  Two  divisions  took  place  on  that  night.  The  CH  ANCEL  LO  R  of  the  Excit  lay)  co.  wished  to  substitute  another  Resolution  for  the  one  of  which  he  had  originally  given  notice.  It  av;i'S  oppos:d  by  Mr.  TIERN  Ey,  who  suggested  his  intention  of  moving  an  Amendment  upon  it.—The  C:1,1  C  El.  LO  of  the  Excur.quEit  i  however,  withdrew  his  new  Resolution,  and  proposed  the  Resolution  (his  second  Resolution)  which  he  had  stated  to  the  House  on  the  first  day  of  the  discussioa  of  t  evidence,.  Sir  T.  Tr  tyro  st  moved  an  Amendment,  declnsing  it  to  be  the  opinion  of  the  House,  that  the  Drake  must  have  been  aware  of  those  abuses,  of  which  evidence  had  becn  given  at  the  Bar  of  the  House.  file  first  division  was  on  Sir  T.  Tv  N  ' STYLE=superscript  6  amendment,  which  was  rejected  by  a  majority  of  191.  The  second  division  was  on  Mr.  Pracnv  A  L'S  second  resolu resolution  tion resolution  of  acquitting  the  Dui:  t:  of  personal  corro  pt  i  on  or  connivance.  This  resolution  was  carried  by  a  majority  of  1:IG111'1  . STYLE=superscript  -1'11;  0.  The  'mintier  of  Members  wito  divided  on  this  second  resolution  was  greater  than  that  which  divided  on  Si  rT.Tr  ItTox's  Amt•nd Amt•ndinent.  inent. Amt•ndinent.  Of  474  Members  present,  190  divided  against  the  14  em;lit em;litlion  lion em;litlion  of  Acquittal—a  proportion  less  than  3to  V.  The  discussion,  however,  is  not  yet  tinished—Mr.  Bitaccr  livrocasT  moves  his  Resolution  on  Monday,  which  is  in  substance  That  tho  House  bad  observed  with  the  deepest  regret  that  there  bad  ex existed  isted existed  a  connection  the  malt  immoral  and  unbecoming;  nod  that  it  had  given  rise  to  an  interference  in  official  matters,  which  had  a  tendency  to  give  the  colour  of  authority  to  transaction*  the  must  There  were  various  reports  in  circulation  yesterday  ;—that  the  1)17  K  E  of  Yo  K  intelifiCd  in  re-ign;  and  that.  an  adjoui  ment,  or  dissolution,  of  the  House  of  toarnons  was  in  agita agitation.  tion. agitation.  We  give  credit  to  time  of  these  reports  ;  and  as  to  the  resignation  of  his  Royal  Highness,  we  have  observed  nothing  in  the  discourse  or  conduct  of  his  friends,  which  would  warrant  the  supposition  that  the  exalted  personage  felt  any  iuclinution  to  wit  htVate  his  from  the  pubiic  s;:rvice.  Saragossa  has  fallen  ;—and  has  tort  an  eternal  monument  to  every  age  and  country  of  the  sublime  devotion  of  her  inhabitants.  She  has  fallen  ;  but  as  tong  as  virtue  and  honour  will  be  objects  of  human  veneration,  her  defence  will  he  recorded  among  the  sublitnest  acts  that  ever  com commanded  manded commanded  the  admiration  of  mankind.  How  we  pity  and  weep  over  the  distresses  of  such  of  her  defenders  as  have  had  the  misfortune  to  survive!  Those  who  have  exnired  under  the  smoaking  ruins  of  their  city,  have  had  a  v;lorious  and  an  enviable  fate;  but  the  captive,  the  undiluted,  the  distracted  'matron,  the  defenseless  virgin,  the  widow,  the.  orphan,  these  are  the  truly  deplorable  victinic  :—t  hese  are  the  beings  whose  sufferings,whose  despair,  and  abandonment  would  extract  tears  and  sympathy  from  their  oil  callons,the  most  obdurate.  Let  an  English  matron,  and  father  tl  i  n!re  to  themselves  the  situation  of  a  city  taken  bs  , STYLE=superscript  storm,  aban abandonned  donned abandonned  to  the  brutal  lost  and  rapine  of  50,000  Poleg,  Ita Italians,  lians, Italians,  and  Frenchmen,—the  refuse  of  the  three  most  licen licentious  tious licentious  and  unprincipled  nations  upon  earth—their  natural  savageness  worked  up  to  frenzy  by  an  intemperate  ese  of  brandy  ;—rushing  with  their  litinds  besmeared  with  blood,  into  the  defenseless  houses;--let  them,  if  they  have  c  , STYLE=superscript  91-  rage  to  cast  a  glance  at  so  heart  rending  a  picture,  behold  the  distracted  females  flying  from  chamber  to  chamber  bl  - STYLE=superscript  4-  fore  these  ram,  reeking  with  the  murder  of  their  hls.  P13_TB00012 - STYLE=superscript  se,  ,  .  •  •  MARCH  19.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  189  ..  ..  ----4.....  v  ,.........  -._----__—_---___..,k___........  , STYLE=superscript  __.:...._._....  , STYLE=superscript  ..._.._...i  •  - STYLE=superscript  John  GAHM)  Werninek,  Plymouth-Doak,  merchant,  at  twelve,  '291  and  199.  Mr.  W.l  a  om.  t:s  Amitlrts..  oas  afterwards  negati%ed  nt  the  Commercial  Inn,  Plymouth.  —May  - STYLE=superscript  16.  Thomas  Godden,  by  a  majority  of  211.  However  1  . STYLE=superscript  211  Members  of  the  House  of  .-  .  •  Illaidsione,  Kent,  carpenter,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall,  London.  ~  ,  •4'  i  Connnon  most  mm  s,  st  of  theta  uneected  with  party,  o  ere  of  opi-  CLIITIFICATr.i.—Arntr.  8.  Lion  that  the  DLKE  of  ':  olt  K  was  guilty  of  corruption  or  .  i  William  Parsons  Meeker,  Basingh  all-street,  London,  and  Sa-  connivance.  .  i  muel  Denman,  Philadelphia,  N  orth  America,  merchants.—  The  debate  on  the  resolution  proposed  by  the  CHA  NC  CL?..0%  i  (k-orge  Hammer,  Cambridge-Heath,  Middlesex,  merchant.  —  Daniel  Ilcelty,  Birmingham,  tailor.—Joseph  Pitnblot,  Mac-  of  the  Excnr.or.  La,  w  hick  dm-clams  that  there  is  no  ;.•;romturl  for  m  ,  clesfield,Cheshire,  grocer.—l-aorence  Williams,  Nicholtts.lane,  charging  the  Ito  vALI)t:Ii  1:  ‘1  ilil  1  , STYLE=superscript  1`10:;01  Corny:inn,  or  aien-m  i  •  merchant.—John  Bell,  I.l%erpool,  trinster-mariner.—Stephen  nivacce  at  the  practices  disclosed  before  the  Committee,  took  m  i  .  Hunt,  Crondall,  Southampton,  tanner.--William  Boucher,  Bir-  place  on  Friday.  Two  divisions  took  place  on  that  uight.  minc,  s  ham,  toy  maker.  _..  .  _  .._  .  TO  OUR,  SUBSCRIBERS  AND  THE  PUBLIC.  —ism—  The  Proprietors  of  THE  NITIU:i  AL  REGlstrit  beg  1  ewe  to  n  The  CH  A  NUE  LLOR  of  the  Ext.:lll:QU  CR  M  I,lCd  10  :fAlbt•lillste  .  .  .  ....  _  .  ...  another  Resolution  for  the  one  of  which  he  had  originally  given  notice.  It  ‘V;ii  oppos:d  by  Mr.  TIEP.N  EY,  who  suggested  his  -  intention  of  movinli  an  Amendment  upon  it.---The  Coh.  Net:m.  l STYLE=superscript  .o  tt.  of  the  Excer.ot:Eit  i  however,  withdrew  his  new  Resolutimitt,  inform  their  Subscribers,  that  the  proposed  rise  of  One  Penny  i  and  proposed  the  Resolution  (his  second  Resolution)  which  he  in  the  price  of  their  Paper  takes  place  to-lay.  The  reasons  had  stated  to  the  House  on  the  first  day  of  the  discussioh  of  tl.!e  4  t  ,  't  q  •  ,  they  have  assigned  for  this  augmentation,  they  confideidly  hope,  evidence,.  SirT.  ''  Tr  tyros  moved  an  Amendme  nt,  dec  hl  rin  it  5  Drak  l STYLE=superscript  ;  g  will  be  found  unobjectionable.  They  have  resorted  to  it  as  a  to  be  the  opinion  of  the  House,  that  the  e  must  have  heels  ...t  matter  of  indispensible  necessity,  become  every  day  more  urgent  aware  of  those  abuses,  of  which  evidence  had  been  given  at  the  in  conseque4ce  of  the  excessive  increase  In  the  Price  of  Paper,  and  from  a  combination  of  other  circumstances.  They  were  Bar  of  the  House.  rite  first  division  was  on  Sir  T.  Ty  lITO  N'S  amendment,  which  i  1,,  reduced  to  the  alternative—to  diminish  the  Original  Matter,  .  .4  was  rejected  by  a  majority  of  1  91.  .'  and,  by  that  means,  decrease  their  own  expcnces  ;—or  resort  to  The  second  division  was  on  Mr.  Proem  . STYLE=superscript  ACS  second  resolu-  .  i..,  •  1  the  expedient  they  have  now  adopted.  After  the-  maturest  con  Lion  °hull  .,  .  the  ,  .  t:  of  .  .  c  t  ming  ',Lk  Lof  personal  corropt  ion  or  commivance.  sideration,  they  adhered  to  the  latter  as  the  pref:rabl4  'mode  ;  This  resolution  was  carried  by  a  maioritv  of  Lion-Ey-1'  11;  t).  and  in  a  moment  when  so  many  momentous  subjects  of  Foreign  '  The  number  of  Members  who  divided  on  this  second  resolution  .  •  and  Domestic  Disquisition  accumulate,  they  would  feel  the  most  was  greater  than  that  which  divided  on  Sir  T.  Tr  lt•Tox's  Amend-  sensible  regret,  were  any  relaxation  of  this  kind  to  appear  in  linoo  en  t.  of  A  O  c  f  q  .  t  l  i  —  lem  a  nb  p  e  r  r  t  s  4  !m  o  r  r  er  io  n  n  t,  le  l  s  O  s  ll  ti  d  u  i  t  y  n  im  :  l  i  e  t  m  i  l  l  a  v  g  .  ai  i  ns  h  t  e  tl  (  m  h  e  i,(  l4  .u  t  s  i:m  i  t  o  l:t  l  :  i  Tot:  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  They  have  incessantly  and  un-  7 STYLE=superscript  itl  i STYLE=superscript  ta  l STYLE=superscript  l  .  rentillingly  laboured  to  merit  the  approbation  of  the  Public;  however,  is  not  yet  finished—Mr.  Bit  AGGE  Billie  asT  moves  and  trust  their  exertions  to  that  effect  hare  not  been  ineffectual.  1  his  ReEointion  on  Monday,  which  i  s  in  su  b  stance  ..  That  cis  .  •  fa  laying  new  claims  to  the  liberality  of  their  Readers,  they  ,I  „  1  'souse  bad  observed  with  time  deepest  regret  that  there  had  ex  ._  consequently  impose  on  themselves  new  obligations  to  justify  fisted  a  connection  the  most  immoral  :tad  unbecoming;  mitt  that  these  pretensions.  d  1 STYLE=superscript  it  had  given  rise  to  an  interference  in  official  matters,  which  had  ;...  SIR  R.  ABERCROMBIE'S  MONUMENI.  1  Tri.  !  a  tendency  to  give  the  colour  of  authority  to  trausactious  the  i  most  l'  •  t.-  ERECTED  IN  Sf.  PAUL'S  CATII  EDlt  AL,  -  There  were  various  reports  in  circulation  •m  , STYLE=superscript  .:sterday  ;—that  .•  ,  Sculptured  by  WES'I'M  4COTT,  and  nowheaulifully  engraved  by  the  11  ..UK  E  OF  YORK  intended  to  resign  ;  and  that  an  adjout  11.•  {VOOLIVOTU,  will  be  delivered  ment,  or  dissolution,  of  the  House  of  Coarnons  was  in  ag,k  a  .  '  1  , STYLE=superscript  .  GRATIS  tioo.  We  give  credit  to  !love  of  these  reports  ;  and  as  to  the  resiguatiou  of  his  Royal  Highness,  we  have  observed  nothing  On  SUNDAY  NEN  T,  MARCH  26,  to  every  SUBSCRTBER  ..  in  the  discourse  or  conduct  of  his  friends,  which  would  warrant  anti  PU  R  CIL  ASER  of  the  suppositiou  that  the  exalted  personage  felt  any  iodination  ,  ~i.  .  ,  ,  TIl  E.  X.-,  T  1  0  X,l  1,  It  EGIST  E  B.  to  withd,aw  his  tal,  yes  front  the  pubic  s;:rvice.  i  ..i  r  !  ....60—  1  The  Choice  and  First  Impressions  of  the  Plate  to  be  preserved  mi  l  ,  „  .  for  Svibseribers.  It  will  he  printed  me  the  FINEST  COPPER-  I  .  ossa  has  fallen  ;—and  has  l  PLATE  PAPER,  placed  in  a  situation  where  the  Valour  and  Prowess  of  that  Im.  •  to  every  age  and  cou  ntr STYLE=superscript  y  of STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  sublime STYLE=superscript  devotion STYLE=superscript  of  her  •  '  •  mortal  Commander  may  be  always  introduced  to  the  itecollee-  inhabitants.  She  has  fallen  ;  but  a STYLE=superscript  s  lon STYLE=superscript  4  g  as  virtue  and  %  ,  ..;r•-....  lion  of  his  admiring  Country.  honour  will  be  objects  of  human  veneration  , STYLE=superscript  her  defence  ~,i  .  .  .,  :,  i  MALI':  13','-•..,,.  The  Portraits  of  the  nAncer.6  of  111  .  e  ROY  A  L  will  be  recorded  among  the  sublimest  acts  that  ever  cool- STYLE=superscript  I  I STYLE=superscript  FAMILY  will  be  for  the  future  DELIA'  Eltlii'D  GRATIS,  to  every  manded  the  admiration  of  mankiLd.  How  we.  pity  and  .  i  i  Subscriber  to  TOE  NA  FION  AI.  REGISTER.  The  !AK  1•;:v  r.ss  weep  over  the  distresses  of  such  of  her  dckni..ers  a,  have  of  the  Duke  of  Clarence,  with  his  (.  7 STYLE=superscript  haracter,  will  be  ready  for  had  the  inisforttine  to  survive!  Those  who  have  expired  ,  Dt  S  0  livery  on  Sunday,  April  10,  19.  un  d  er  th  e  smoaking  ruins  of  their  city,  have  bad  a  glorious  ,1  i STYLE=superscript  J  •  and  an  enviable  fate;  but  the  captive,  the  mutilated,  the  i  distra-ted  'matron,  the  defenseless  virgin,  the  widow,  the  )  THE  .NATIoNAL  REGISTER.  orphan,  these,  are  the  truly  deplorable  victims  :  — STYLE=superscript  these  are  l'  the  beings  whose  sufterings.whose  despair,  and  abandonm  ;  ent  ,  •  -  ;  ;  would  extract  tears  and  sympathy  from  their  oil  callons,the  tontion,  most  obdurate.  Let  an  English  matron,  and  father  tl  i  n!re  to  ~  I  li  .  1 STYLE=superscript  SUNDAY,  MARCH  19,  109.  .  themselves  the  situation  of  a  city  taken  by  storw,  ;Oman-  ,  donned  to  the  brutal  lust  and  rapine  of  50,000  Poles,  Ha-  .  liaus,  and  Frenchmen,—the  refuse  of  the  three  most  limn-  EVENTS  Of  THE  WEER.  , STYLE=superscript  l  POLITICAL  •  tious  and  unprincipled  nations  upon  earth—their  natural  .  ......--......  savageness  worked  up  to  frenzy  by  an  intemperate  ese  of  On  Wodnesday  last  the  House  of  Commons  came  to  a  dec  ision STYLE=superscript  brandy  ;—rushing  with  their  fituids  besmeared  with  blood,  v STYLE=superscript  wn  the  Addresses  moved  by  Coloacl  . STYLE=superscript  Waarmr.  and  Mr.  BAsinEs,  into  the  defenseless  ho  uses;-  -  let  them,  if  they  have  c  , STYLE=superscript  ‘li-  .  I'  '  ..:1  ~..  !i'  !  '••  relative  to  the  Charges  preferred  against  the  DUKE  UF  YORK.  rage  to  cast  a  glance  at  so  heart  rending  a  picture,  behold  1  .  -  '  ‘  The  fi  rst  division  took  place  on  Mr.  BARNES',  Amendment,  which  was  negatived  by  a  smajoritY  of  95  I  tike  Ilmber  Wail  .  (  the  distracted  females  flying  from  chamber  to  chamber  uf  ,  fore  then  ram,  reeking  rah  the  murder  of  their  bus.  (.  .  .  I_.  I  '  .  ,  ,‘;  -  .  1  - STYLE=superscript  ,  4  '  .'  ,  '  i"
