text
"DUKE  OF  YORK.  Mr.  SLITAIIDA  N  rose,  and  said,  that  he  had  in  his  hand  a  Pe Petition  tition Petition  from  an  individual  whOse  name  had  been  repeatedly  men mentioned  tioned mentioned  and  called  in  question  by  an  Honourable  Gentleman  (Mr.  Beresford),  when  Mr.  Corri  was  interrogated  by  him.  He  concluded  by  bringing  up  the  Petition,  which  was  in  substance,  that  Mr.  Peter  Finnerty  had  heard  with  . STYLE=superscript  and  regret,  that  in  the  course  of  the  examination  now  earr.  ing  on  befw•e  the  House  relative  to  the  Duke  of  York,  questions  had  been  put  implying  suspicions  which  might  produce  an  impression  injuri injurious  ous injurious  to  him  upon  a  prosecution  instituted  against  him  by  his  Ma Majesty's  jesty's Majesty's  Attorney-General.  He  expressed  his  willingness  to  be  called  as  a  witness  tl.the  Bar  of  the  house,  and  answer  any  questions  that  might  be  put  to  him,  which  answers  should  be  frank,  full,  and  explicit.—Ordered  toile  on  the  table.  Examination  of  Mrs.  Clarke.—When  .  this  Lady  was  directed  to  he  called  in,  an  unusual  interest  appeared  to  be  excited  through  the  House,  and  it  wa3  some  time  before  she  appeared  at  the  Bar,  and  then  evidently  in  a  state  of  considerable  embarrass embarrassment  ment embarrassment  and  perturbation.  Mrs.  Clarke,  as  we  understood,  for  she  spoke  in  a  very  low  tone  of  voice,  complained  either  of  insult,  or  of  some  other  -unpleasant  circumstance  that  had  occurred  on  her  approach  to  the  House.  .  _  Q.  - STYLE=superscript  bid  Colonel  French  apply  to  you,  in  the  year  1804,  to  procure,  through  your  influence,  the  permission  of  the  Com Commander  mander Commander  in  Chief  for  the  raising  a  levy  of  men  ?  A.  Ile  did  apply  to  me  for  that  purpose,  hut  I  really  cannot  tell  in  what  year.—  Q.  Does  the  witness  recollect  any  part  of  the  offers  which  Col.  French  made,  and  which  induced  her  to  mention  his  name  to  the  Commander  in  Chief?  A.  I  recollect  some  of  the  offers  which  he  made,  and  if  I  were  to  see  the  papers  belonging  to  them  I  could  recojlect  more.--Q.  Did  the  witness  state  to  the  Com Commander  mander Commander  in  'Chief  any  pecuniary  advantage  which  she  was  to  de derive  rive derive  in  case  his  Royal  _Highness  gave  Colonel  French  the  levy  ?  A.  Yes,  certainly.,--Q.  Did  the  Commander  in  Chief  make  any  promise  to  the  witness  of  giving  the  levy  to  Colonel  French  after  this  application  ?  A.  Yes,  he  did.—Q.  Did  the  witness  in  conse consequence  quence consequence  of  this  receive  from  Colonel  French,  or  from  any  other  person  on  his  account,  any  sum  of  money  on.  that  account?  A.  Yes.—Q.  What  particular  sun?  A.  I  received  5001.  or  guineas,  I  can't  recollect  well  which,  from  Captain  Sandon,  according  to  the  best  of  my  memory,  and  I  immediately  went  to  Birkett,  the  silversmith,  and  paid  it  to  himou  account,  for  some  plate  sent.hy  hint  to  Gloucester  Place,  and  his  Royal  Highness  paid  the  re remainder  mainder remainder  of  thevaltie  oft  hat  plate  by  his  hills.—  Q.  Does  witness  know  of  any  alteration  having  been  made  in  the  original  terms  of  the  leipy  ?  A.  'I  kept  no  account  of  them.  The  notes  respect respecting  ing respecting  them  and  memorandums  I  instantly  gave  to  his  Royal  h  igh ighness.---Q..  ness.---Q.. ighness.---Q..  Does  witness  know  of  any  loan  to  be  granted  con connected  nected connected  with  the  Circumstances  of  the  levy  ?  A.  I  understood  that  if  Colonel  French  could  get  his  accounts  passed  at  the  War-  Office,  where  he  stated  there  was  a  considerable  balance  due  to  him,  that  a  loan  of  1)000/.  would  be  procured  fur  his  Royal  Highness  upon  security,  and  at  the  legal  interest.  Interrogated  by  Mr.  CRO  What  Gentlemen  called  At  the  witness's  honse  since  her  last  examination  here?  A.  Only  two  Gentlemen.--Q.  has  witness  ever  received  any  sums  of  money  :10111  Mr.  Dow  ler  ?  A.  I  received  1.000/.  from  him  for  procuring  fur  him  the  appointment  of  Deputy  Commis Commissary..Q.  sary..Q. Commissary..Q.  Does  _witness  owe  Mr.  yowler  now  tiny  money,  h"
