text
"TILE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  meritorious  Officers,  whose  honour  and  zeal  for  his  Muje&amp;t  service  were  undisputed.  The  Right  Hon.  Gentleman  concludt•it  by  congratulating  the  Rouse  on  the  newly  acquired  ninderatio.  of  the  Gentlemen  opposite,  and  hoped  they  would  persevere  i:•  so  laudable  a  system,  so  different  from  last  Ses,inn,  and  so  agreeable  to  every  honourable  feeling,  when  it  was  discovered  that  Ministers  made  every  exertion  in  their  power  for  the  ad advantage  vantage advantage  of  the  country.  After  some  general  . STYLE=superscript  observations  and  explanations  the  Spen  ker  put  the  question  on  the  Address,  which  was  carried  in  the  affiro,-  ;give  without  a  division.  Pie  'louse  adjourned  at  half  past  eleven  o'clock,  FRIDAY,  JANUARY  20.  Mr,  GRANT,  from  the  Committee  of  Military  Enquiry,  pre presented  sented presented  the  7th  and  Bth  Reports  of  the  Committee,  which  were  ordered  to  be  printed.  PRIVATE  131  LLS.  The  CHANCELLOR  of  the  Ex  ell  EQU  ER  proposed  as  standing  orders  of  the  House,  That  no  Petitions  for  Private  Bills  he  re received  ceived received  after  the  24th  of  February  ;  that  no  Private  Bill  he  re received  ceived received  after  the  27th  of  March  ;  and  no  report  of  a  Private  Bill  after  the  Bth  of  May.  DUKE  OF  YORK.  Mr.  WAttorta.  gave  notice  of  a  motion  on  the  conduct  of  his  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  York,  in  granting  Commis Commissions,  sions, Commissions,  and  in  a  variety  of  other  military  detail*  conuected  with  the  basiaess  of  his  oflice.—Adjourned.  STATE  PAPERS.  —yaw— —yawcon  con —yawcon  ESPON  DEx  cg  WITH  THE  RUSSIAN  AND  TRENCH  GOVERNMENTS  RELATIVE  TO  VALE  OVERTURES  RECEIVED  FROM  ERFURTII.  Count  Nicolas  de  Romanzoff  to  Mr.  Secretary  Canning,  •  dated  Erfurtb,  Oct.  12,  IRK  Received  Oct.  21st.  (Translation.)  *  •  •  send  to  your  Ekcellency  a  letter  which  the  Emperors  'ef  Russia  and  France  write  to  his  Majesty  the  King  of  e,ngland.  The  Emperor  offßussia  flatters  himself  that  Englan  d  will  feel  the  grandeur  and  sincerity  of  this  step.  She  will  there  find  the  most  natural  and  the  most  simple  answer  to  the  overture  w  hich  has  been  made  by  Admiral  Saumarez:  The  union  of  the  two  Em Empires  pires Empires  is  beyond  the  reach  of  all  change,  and  the  two  Emperors  have  formed  it  for  peace  as  well  as  for  war.  His  Majesty  has  Comnianded  me  to  make  known  to  your  Excellency  that  he  has  nominated  Plenipotentiaries  who  will  repair  to  Paris,  where  they  will  Wait  the  answer  which  your  Excellency  may  he  pleased  to  make  to  me.  I  request  . STYLE=superscript  you  to  addre  , STYLE=superscript  s  it  to  the  Rus Russian  sian Russian  Ambassador  at  Paris.  The  Plenipotentiaries  named  h.%  the  Empernr  of  Russia  will  repair  to  that  City  (  f  t  the  Continent  to  whielt  the  Plenipotentiaries  of  his  Britannic  Majesty  and  his  Allies  shall  hayb  been  sent,  In  respect  to  the  basis  of  the  ',ego ',egoelation,  elation, ',egoelation,  their  . STYLE=superscript  Imperial:Majesties  see  no  difficulty  in  adopting  all  those  formerly  proposed  by  l'ngland,  namely,  ,tlie  (Ili  Possidetis,  and  eiery  other  basis  founded  upon  the  reciprocity  and  equality  whieu  ought  to  prevail  between  rili  great  Nations.  I  have  the  honour  to  be,  with  seattmeuis  of  the  bighest•consideration,  &amp;c.  (Signed)  Count  NICOLA  S  DE  ROMA  NZOFF.  Letter  from  his  Mkjesty  the  Emperor  of  all  the  RUS)iAS,  and  Bonaparte,  to  his  Majesty,  dated  Erfurth,  Oct.  12,  1808.  —  Received  Oct.  21.  (Translation.)  SIRE,--  The  present  circumstances  of  Europe  have  hronett  us•  together  at  Erfurth.  Our  first  thought  is  to  yield  to  the  wish  and  the  wants  of  every  people,  and  to  seek,  in  a  speedy  pacifi pacificutiou  cutiou pacificutiou  with  your  Majesty,  the  most  efficacious  remedy  for  the  miseries  which  oppress  all  nations.  We  make  known  to  your  Majesty  our  sincere  desire  itt  this  respect  by  the  present  letter.  The  long  and  bloody  war  which  has  toru  the  Continent  is  at  an  end,  without  the  possibility  of  being  renewed.  Many  changes  have  taken  place  in  Europe;  many  states  have  heeu  overthrown.  The  cause  is  to  be  found  in  the  state  of  agitation  and  misery  in  which  the  stagnation  of  maritime  commerce  has  placed  the  great greatest.  est. greatest.  nations.  ;  Still  greater  changes  may  yet  take  place,  and  all  of  them  contrary  to  the  policy  of  the  English  nation.  Peace,  then,  Isis(  once  the  interest  of  the  people  of  the  Continent,  as  it  is  ti  e  istereit  of  the  people  of  Ureat  Britain.  We  unite  ip  counting  55  your  Aldiesty  to  listeu  to  the  voice  of  humanity,  silencing  shot  Of  he  passions;  to  seek,  with  the  intention  of  arriving  at  that  ob ob,i..ct,  ,i..ct, ob,i..ct,  to  conciliate  all  interests,  and  by  that  means  to  preserve  al  the  powers  which  exist,  and  to  insure  the  happiness  of  urope  and  of  this  generation,  at  the  bead  of  which  Providence  uas  placed  us.  (Signed)  ALEXA  NDER—NA  POLEO  PI  .  Letter  from  Mr.  Secretary  Canning  to  the  Russian  Autbassador,  at  Paris,  dated  Foreign  Office,  28th  October,  ISOS.  (Translation.)  SlR,—lfaving  laid  before  the  Kin;  my  Master  the  two  letters  which  his  Excellency  the  Count  Nicholas  de  Rionanzotf  has  , STYLE=superscript  ransmitted  to  me  from  Erfurth,  l  have  received  his  Majests's  emninands  in  reply  to  that  which  is  addressed  to  him,  by  the  of official  ficial official  Note  which  I  have  the  honour  to  enclose  to  your  Excel Excellency.  lency. Excellency.  Howeser  desirous  his  Majesty  might  be  to  reply  directly  to  his  Majesty  the  Emperor  of  Russia,  you  cannot  but  feel,  Sir,  that  from  the  unusual  manner  in  which  the  letters  signed  by  his  Imperial  .3.laje•ty  were  drawn  up,  and  which  has  entirely  de deprived  prived deprived  them  of  the  character  of  a  private  and  personal  communis  cation,  his  Majesty  has  found  it  impo-sible  to  adopt  that  mark  of  respect  towards  the  Emperor  of  Itu-sia,  without  at  the  same  time  acknowledging  titles  which  his  Majesty  never  bus  acknow acknowledged.  ledged. acknowledged.  I  am  commanded  to  ad  to  the  conteats  of  the  official  Note,  that  his  Majesty  will  hasten  to  commpoicate  to  his  Majesty  the  - STYLE=superscript  King  of  Sweden,  and  to  the  existing  Government  of  Spain,  the  proposals  which  have  been  made  to  him.  Your  f,,xcillency  will  perceive  that  it  is  absolutely  necessary  that  his  Majesty  should  receive  an  immediate  assurance  that  France  acknowledges  the  Government  of  Spain  as  party  to  any  negociation.  That  such  is  the  intention  of  the  Emperor  of  Russia  his  Majesty  can cannot  not cannot  doubt.  His  Majesty  recollects  with  satisfaction  the  lively  interest  o  hich  his  Imperial  111;kjesty  has  always  manifestad  for  the  welfare  and  dignity  of  the  Spanish  snoluirchy,  and  be  wants  no  other  assurance  that  his  IMperial  Majesty  cannot  have  been  •  induced  to  sanction  by  his  concurrence,  or  by  his  approbation,  usurpations,  the  principle  of  which  is  not  less  unjust  than  their  example  is  dangerous  to  all  legitimate  Sovereigns.  As  soon  - STYLE=superscript  as  the  answers  on  this  point  shallAsve  OP  received,  and  as  soon  as  his  Majesty  shall  have  learnt  *the  sentiments  orthe  King  of  Sweden,  and  those  of  the  Governraent  of  Spain,  I  shall  not  fail  to  receive  the  'commands  of  his  Majesty  for  such  cons consoiunications  oiunications consoiunications  as  it  may  be  necessary  to  make  upon  the  ulterior  objects  of  the  letter  of  Count  Romanzoff.—l  have  the  honour  to  be,  di:c.  •  .  (Signed)  _GEORGE  CANNING.  OFFICIAL  NOTE.  .The  King  has  uniformly  declared  his  readiness  and  desire  to  enter  into  negotiations  for•  a  general  peace  on  terms  consistent  with  the  honour  of  hi-  Majesty's  crown,  with  fidelity  to  his  en engagmen's,  gagmen's, engagmen's,  and  with  the  permanent  repose  and  security  of  Eu Europe.  rope. Europe.  His  Majesty  repeats  that  declaration.—lf  the  condition  of  the  Continent  be  one  of  agitatiOn  and  of  wretchedness;  it  ,nano  states  have  been  overihrown;  and  more  are  sill)  menaced  with  subversion,  it  is  a  consolation  to  the  King  to  reflect,  that  no  part  of  the  convulsions  w  Inch  have  already  been  experienced,  or  of  those  which  are  threatened  for  the  future,  can  be  in  any  legree  imputable  to  his  Majesty.  The  King,  is  most  willing  to  acknowledge  that  all  such  dreadful  ciainges  are  indeed  contrary  to  the  policy  of  Great  Brit;:ia.  If  the  caire,ofsu  much  misery  is  to  be  fining!  in  the  stagnation  of  commercial  intercourse,—al intercourse,—altsaufz,h  tsaufz,h intercourse,—altsaufz,h  his  M  jesty  cannot  be  - STYLE=superscript  expected  to  hear,  with  unquali unquali:fied,  :fied, unquali:fied,  regret,  t3.4t  the  s.-lens  devised  for  the  destruction  of  the  :com  erre  of  .his.subjeets  has  recoiled  upon  its  authors,  or  its  ins.ru  dentsy—yet  it  it  neither  in  the  disposition  of  his  Majesty,  'a,  •v.iathe  character  of  the  people  over  whom  'he  reigns,  to  re re,),e  ,),e re,),e STYLE=superscript  in  the  privations  and  unhappiness  even  of  the  nations  which  are  combined  ;pinist  him.  His  Majesty  anxiously  de desir  sir desir  s  the  termination  o  f  the  sufferings  of  the  Continent.  Tne.  war  in  which  his  Majesty  is  engaged,  was  etrtered  itite  by  his  Majesty  for  the  immediate  object  of  national  safety.  it  has  been  prolonged  only  because  *no  secure  and  honourable  laeans  of  terminating  it  have  been  afforded  by  his  enemies.  But  in  the  progress  of  a  war,  begun  for  self-defence,  new  obliga obligations  tions obligations  have  been  imposed.upon  his  Majesty,  in  behalf  of  powers  whom  the  aggressions  of  a  common  enemy  have  compeliel  to  make  common  cause  witfi  his  Majesty;  or  who  haw*  solicited  his  Majesty's  assistance  and  support  in  the  vindication  of  tocir  national  independence  The  interests  of  the  Crowe  of  Portu„ol,  and  of  his  Sicilian  Majesty  are  confided  to  his  Majesty's  ship  and  protection.  With  the  King  of  Sweden  his  Majesty  i  P7_TB00022 I"
