text
"4  .6  96  -  yvhfn  .i.n  .  :l,land  played  so  strongsa  partin  the  affairs  of  the  Coattneut  ;  when  no  treaty  was  signed,  no  engage engage.  . engage.  'tient  entered  into,  or  proposed  without  cousulti:g  her.  •  But  it  is  elo,-tifying  to  be  recuring  constantly  to  principles  -  which  with  our  departed  statesmen  mid  heroei.  .  They  are  the  araiour  our  countrymen  formerly  wore;--  •  they  are  are  to  heavy  lot  tne  present  puny  and  degene.  ate  race.  •  We  have  received  ,American  papers  and  letters  to  the  7th  bio•  !.0  iatmouth  by  the  Manchester  picket,  in  twenty-four  days  from  ork.  Their  conte  is  pro  , STYLE=superscript  e,  beyond  doubt,  the  determination  of  the  American  Ex Ex.  . Ex.  ecutive  nud  Le  i  ;:iseiture,  to  persevere  in  the  system  of  Erri.  •  hargo,  anti  to  add  restrictions  'of  a  more  hostile  tendency  to  an  intercourse  between  the  two  countries.  A  Bill  passed  the  :ettate,  which  prohibits  the  exportation  of  spe specie,  cie, specie,  or  goods  of  Foreign  or  domestic  growth  ;  a  viola violation  tion violation  of  this  law  will  be  punished  with  a  penalty  of  three  times  the  value  of  the  article  exported  I  and  the  informer  is.  to  be  rewarded  with  half  the  fine.  Every  persmi  evad evading  ing evading  this  act,  or  employed  in  assisting  the  evasion,  such  as  supercargo,  seamen,  owner  of  tuerchaudize,  or  'waggoner  will  be  deemed  an  abettor.  The  Non-Intereours:!  Bill  has  likewise  been  car.led  with  a  majority  of  51.  It  was  brought  forward  in  the  Rouse  of  -  Representatives  on  the  )1111  of  Dec.  under  the  following  form  Resolved,  That  it  is  expedient  to  .prohibit,  by  law,  the  ad•  mission  into  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  of  all  public  or  pri private  vate private  awned  or  unarmed  chips  or  vessels  belonging  to  Great  Bri Britain,  tain, Britain,  or  France,  or  to  any  other  of  the  Belligerent  Powers,  having  in  forCe  Orders  or  Decrees  violating  the  la  wful  cOmmerre  of  toe  United  States—and  also  the  importation  of  any  goods,  wares,  merchandize,  the  growths  produce,  or  manufacture  of  the  dominion:;  of  any  of  the  said  Powers,  or  imported  from  any  place  in  the  possession  of  either.  It  was  followed  by  an  unanimous  resolution,  that  mea.  tures  ought  to  he  immediately  adopted  for  placing  the  country•ih  a  more  complete  state  of  defence.  The  Non-  Intercourse  Bill  is  not  to  have  the  force  of  law  until  July  next.  Congress,  probably,  hoping  that  in  the  interval  the  Belligerents  may  be  induced  to  relax,  in  favour  of  American  commerce,  in  the  severity  of  their  Decrees  and  Orders  in  Council.-  Some  private  accounts  speak  of  a  war  between  America  and  this  country  as  unavoidable.  It  is  reported  that  our  Government  is  going  to  send  out  immediate  instructions  to  'Air.  ERSKINE.  our  Minister  in  •-  America.  lie  is  said  to  receive  orders  therein  to  commu communicate  nicate communicate  to  the,American  Executive  a  willingness  on  our  .  part,  to  withdraw  our  Orders  in  Council,  provided  the  Americans  will-consent  to  certain  conditions  of  a  cern cerninercial  inercial cerninercial  nature.  Six  additional  .Bulletins  have  heeti  transmitted  is  this  country,  •aild  in  the  usual  manner.  They  contain  a  jour journal  nal journal  of  the  military  events  from  the  sth  Jan.  down,  to  the  30th.  Ore  of  them  is  dated  Valladolid,  Jan.  £6,  and  re.;  fors  to  some  successes  obtained  over  the  Spaniards  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Aranjuez.  In  proportion  as  oar  means  of  obtaining,  correct  information  become  straitened,  the  more  the  inventive  genius  of  the  enemy  is  happy  in  embel embellishment.  lishment. embellishment.  A  nauseous  description  is  then  made  of  the  an  xions  desire  of  the  citizens  of  Madrid'  to  see  King  Jos  FPI!  restored  to  them  !  The  Bulletin  ,conciudes.  With  stating,  that  relays  have  been  sent  on  the  road  towards  Bayonne.  From  this  circumstance  it  may  be  inferred,  that  BONA  PARTE  intends  returning  to  Paris.  .  *  next  Bulletin  describes  the  battle  of  Corunna,  in  which  our  troops,  as  may.be  -  - STYLE=superscript  expected;  were  defeated  with  great  loss  ;  whilst  that  of  the  French  was  compara comparatively  tively comparatively  trifling.  lie  has  explained,  however,  in  a  very  Mingling  manner,  the  embarkation  of  Onr•troops,-  which  could  not  have  so  expe  !.ti  , STYLE=superscript  smisly  taken  place,  had  their  de defeat  feat defeat  been  so  very  decisive.  We  have  so  frequently  adverted  to  tlie  impudence  and  lies  of  the  Corsican,  that  our  Read Readerg  erg Readerg  will  spare  us  any  further  remarks  on  the  disgusting  ,rt.  ,n  a'  I'.~ii  DREADFUL  FIRE.—At  half  ii.ast  :  four,  on  Sunday  afternoon  a  moat  alarming  fire  broke  out  at  Warne's  hotel,  in  Conduit Conduitstreet,  street, Conduitstreet,  lioni-street.  The  appearance,  on  its  first  breaking  out,  was.most  frightful.  A  great  body  of  stnuak  issued  from  the  premises,  which  entirely  prevented  the  passengers  from  see seeing  ing seeing  their  a.'  in  the  street.  The  flames  burst  out  of  every  win window  dow window  in  the  house,  and  .the  whole  side  of  the  street,  from  the  corner  of  George-street,  Ilanover-3quare,  to  111  ill-street,  enveloped  in  flames,  threatening  destruction  to  the  whole  neigh neighbourhood.  bourhood. neighbourhood.  The  Hotel  is  •enkre'ly  'destroyed  - STYLE=superscript  ,  and  part  of  an  adjoining  house,  including  the  bark  premises,  which  extend  nearly  to  the  gates  •of  .  St,  George's  Chapel,  in  George  2 STYLE=superscript  ;treet.  Hanover  :  square.  The  e  .  veningerviee  was.  Dot  ,  over  at  the  time  thi  ffre'broke  out.  •  Theseyvice  yi!as  .  Amineklinttly  stopped;  the  eongreg  Ilion  ma  'g  .  th.mr,  escape..  ..  1  1)/cais/toecy  ta  say  that  several  persons  were  much  invt,„...ppq,  .ficeonto  1)9d,.,11js  hair  and  part  of  bib  clothes  burnt  ;  otr  ffre  r  . STYLE=superscript  to  y  occasioned  by  the  fall  of  a  (joker  U.  ka  . STYLE=superscript  '  dad  pecii  'carelesSi  t  y  left  in  the  fire.  A  -  'Ar  k  46.,•,•  .o  .  4  111  AR'  11',  •  e':  '  4 STYLE=superscript  •  On  the  23d  ult.'  of  'Hurley,  in  Berk  - STYLE=superscript  Aiee,.  retir  g  e'Ke*ek  Rusden;  of  Pemloroke  Hall,  Cambridge,  ILA.  to  X•nhe,..bnly  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Thomas  Towmati;-4tctiornf  4 STYLE=superscript  Aiisttapi  in  Lincolnshire.  .•  .4  .  .  y  •  4  :a  ir  On  Wednesday  se'nnight,  Thomas  Bee,-Esq.  of  Peckham,  to  Mks  Mary  Bee,  of  Butt-lane,  Deptford,  Yesterday,  at  St.  Martin't-in-the-Firldt,  ,by  ibie  •  iiefv.  Mr.  Gurney,  Rector  of  Clements:  Danes,  Mr.  Benjantio.  Atom,  son  of  the  ftey.  Dr.  Duncan,  and  Master  of  the  rantolaNauare  Academy,  to  Miss  Gordon,  of  St.  Martip's-lane....  PRICE  OF  STOCKS  YESTERDAY.  '3  per  Cent.  Cons:  671—India  Bonds  10,  11  pm.-4  per  Cent.  Cons.  82E  3—S  per  ent..  Reduced  4—Long  Annuities  IS  9-161—Omnium  *  pn  ,—Exch.  Bills  12,  15  pm.—Lottery  '  Tickets  £2l  19.—Consols  for  Acclunts  P16_TB00011 •  .  s  .  rtro  and  to  add  restrictions  id  a  more  hostile  tendency  wench,  she  being  i-s  n  intercourse  between  the  two  countries.  A  Bill  I.a  and  of  very  fond  of  shewing  herself  in  the  court,  a  attracting  attention.  At  this  time  Mr.  Joseph  Clarke,  i  1  sscd  the  :ettate,  which  prohibits  the  exportation  of  spe-  sou  ofd  reputable  builder,  of  Snow-hill,  was  apprentice  to  i,  or  „Foods  of  Foreign  or  domestic  growth  ;  a  viola-  Mr.  Burnell,  the  mie.on  in  Cursitor•ctreet,  and  became  amazingly  on  of  this  law  will  be  punished  with  a  penalty  of  three  enamoured  of  Miss  Farquhar,  who  readily  received  his  ;O-  nes  the  value  of  the  article  exported  I  and  the  informer  dresses.  She  eloped  with  him,  and  they  lived  together  about  ,  1  to  be  rewarded  with  half  the  fine.  Every  persan  evad-  three  y  ears  ,  when  he  married  her.  She  conducted  her,e'lf  i  ;  r  this  act,  or  employed  in  assistin  ts  .r  the  evasion,  such  as  w  ith  propriety,  and  tfiey  lived  together  decently  several  years  , STYLE=superscript  1-  in  the  course  of  which  time  she  bore  him  several  children,  about  percargo,  seamen,  owner  of  tuerchaudize,  or  'waggoner  i  oar  of  whom  are  now  alive.  But  he  was  a  man  *of  a  very  11  be  deemed  an  abettor.  dissolute  life,  and-she  says,  she  never  entertained  a  design  of  The  Non-Intercours:.  Bill  has  likewise  been  car.led  with  l  eav  i  ng  him  011  she  was  twice  visited  by  the  effects  of  his  najority  of  51.  It  was  brought  forward  in  tile  House  of  amours.  Mr.  Clarke  is  still  living,  a  wanderer  About  the  town,  t  presentativos  on  the  nth  of  Dee.  under  the  following  ou  a  small  annuity  paid  him  weekly,  pursum.i  to  his  father's  rin  :  .  tv  ill,  being  all  the  father  left  him.  •  To  his  ether  •  four  or  five  Resolved,  That  it  is  expedient  to  •prohibit,  by  law,  the  ad•  children  the  father  lefts  eight  thousand  pounds  each.  :.  Mrs.  scion  into  the  ports  of  the  United  States,  of  all  public  or  pri-  Clarke's  own  father  is  dead.  She  had  two  bsother3,  (Ale  of  to  armed  or  unarmed  chips  or  vessels  belonging  to  Great  lsri-  whom  entered  the  army  as  a  common  soldier,  and  is  supposed  in,  or  France,  or  to  any  other  of  the  Belligerent  Powers,  tt  be  dead,  and  it  is  believed  the  other  brother  is  dead  also.  ving  in  force  Orders  or  Decrees  violating  the  la  wful  commerce  She  had  a  sister.  Whether  the  mother  and  sister  are  livitt;  is  the  United  States—and  also  the  importation  of  any  goods,  unknown  ;  hut  the  person  Mrs.  Clarke  calls  her  mother,  is  sup-  :res,  werchandize,  the  growth.  produce,  or  manufactlre  of  '  posed  to  he  her  chief  odvisonnd  confederate,•  though  no  reln-  e  dominion.;  of  any  of  the  said  Powers,  or  imported  from  any  .  tion..  Mrs.  Clarke  live*  ay  - STYLE=superscript  ith  sev.eral  Gentlemen  .  prior  to  her  ace  in  the  possession  of  either.  acquaintance  with,  the  Duke  of  York,  all  of  ,s-ii  , STYLE=superscript  tot  coMplain  It  was  followed  by  an  unanimoua  resolution,  that  mea-  of  her  extravagance  and  artfulness;  but  .:admit  that  she  •is  a  res  ought  to  he  immediately  adopted  for  placing  the  most  fascinating  woman.  .  •  iuntry.  if'  a  more  complete  state  of  defence.  The  Non-  At  the  sale  of  Mrs.  Clarke's  effects  in  (Thnice;ter  .  1 STYLE=superscript  1.  8 STYLE=superscript  .  -  among  other  artistes  whielreame  to  the  hammer;  was  an  sure  -  tercourse  Bill  is  not  to  have  the  force  of  law  until  July  lure  of  the  Queen,  set.  round  with  diamond  , STYLE=superscript  .  •  xt.  Congress,  probably,  hoping  that  in  the  interval  e  Belligerents  may  be  induced  to  relax,  in  favour  of  •  .  DREADrut  FIRE.—At  half  ii.ast,four,.  on  Suoday  afternoon  nerican  corameree,  in  the  severity  of  their  Decrees  and  .  a  moat  alarming  fire  broke  out  at  Warnt'b  hotel,  in  Conduit-  Niers  in  Council  .  -  Some  private  accounts  speak  of  a  war  •  street,  Boni-street.  The  appearance,  on  its  first  breaking  out,  :tween  America  and  this  country  as  unavoidable.  wasannst  frightful.  A  great  body  of  sinunk  issued  from  the  It  is  reported  that  our  Government  is  going  to  send  out  premises,  which  entirely  prevented  the  passengers  from  see-  mediate  instructions  to  Mr.  ERSKINE.  our  Minister  in  ing  their  n  a.•  in  the  street.  The  flames  burst  out  of  every  win-  nnerica.  lie  is  said  to  receive  o  rders  the  r  ein  to  commu-  dow  in  the  house,  and  .the  whole  side  of  the  street,  from  the  Cate  to  ihe•American  Executive  a  willingness  on  our  corner  of  George-street,  Ilanove  . STYLE=superscript  r-square,  to  Mill  -street,  was  Irt,  to  withdraw  our  Orders  in  Council,  provided  the  enveloped  in  flames,  threatening  destruction  to  the  whole  neigh-  mericans  wilt-consent  to  certain  conditions  of  a  atm-  bourhood.  The  Hotel  is  'entirely  - STYLE=superscript  destroyed  - STYLE=superscript  ,  and  part  of  an  ercial  nature.  adjoining  house,  including  the  bark  -  premises,  which  extend  nearly  to  the  gates  •of  . STYLE=superscript  .St,  George's  Chapel,  in  George  2 STYLE=superscript  ;treet,  —do.  -  .  Hanover  :  square.  The  eveninglerviee  was.  Dot  ,  over  at  the  time  Six  additional  Bulletins  .  have  been'  transmitted  to  this  thitlre  - STYLE=superscript  broke  out.  •  The:service  was  imenetliatriy  stopped;  awl  anitty,•and  in  the  usual  manner.  They  contain  a  Jour-  the  eon;  e  rg  ma  . STYLE=superscript  0  .tho.ir.  csc'aite.  - STYLE=superscript  )V  .  ,a  g  :  ;  .oz  to  say  that  11  of  the  military  events  from  the  s STYLE=superscript  th  Jan.  do  w STYLE=superscript  n  , STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  severa  l  persons  were  much  ikart  o  ..Wi  t  fi,riona  p  bad„hjs  hair  Hit.  One  of  them  is  dated  Valladolid  , STYLE=superscript  Jan.  26, STYLE=superscript  a  n STYLE=superscript  d  re-  and  part  of  his  clothes  burntotr:  — STYLE=superscript  The  firk.,4;;  Sal  '  to  lweleen  rs  to  some  successes  obtained  over  the  Spaniards  in  the  occasioned  by  the  fall  ofa  pOker  tvl.lol  . STYLE=superscript  l3  4 STYLE=superscript  4d&#34;.beeit'carelesSi  t  Y  left  !ig,hhourhood  of  Aranjuez.  In  proportion  as  onr  means  in  the  fire.  -  4A  t  o.  L  j  a  ,,',  •  .  4  -  .  obtaining  correet  information  become  straitened,  the  ,  ore  the  inventive  genius  of  the  enemy  is  happy  in  corb  el- STYLE=superscript  .  Al  AR'  it  I  l STYLE=superscript  i',  fi:  '  -  '  4 STYLE=superscript  •  '  -  •  d_.•  ihment.  A  nanvNnas  descciption  i‘s  then  made  of  the  On  the  23d  ult.'  of  'Hurley,  in  Berk  - STYLE=superscript  A  lee,.  rteerge'Kejpek  ixions  desire  of  the  citizens  of  Madrid  '  to  see  King  Jos  FPI!  Rusden;  of  Pemkroke  Hall,  Calnbridge,ll:**A.  - STYLE=superscript  fii  . STYLE=superscript  iknhe',..-bnly  :stored  to  them  !  The  Bulletin  .  concludes  .  With  stating,  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Thomas  Towmsedd;-4tettiavr4of  4 STYLE=superscript  Aiisttop4  in  Lincolnshire.  Lat  relays  .  have  been  sent  on  the  road  towards  Bayonne.  On  Wednesday  sennight,  Thomas  Beei•Esq.  of  Peckham,  to  nom  this  circumstance  it  may  be  inferred,  that  BONAPARTE  Mks  Mary  Bee,  of  Butt-lane,  Deptford,  -  .  ..',...s  - STYLE=superscript  tends  returning  to  Paris.  '  .  .  .  Yesterday,  at  St.  Martin's-in-the-Firldt,,  by  Ate  •  Ara?.  Mr.  Ali  next  Bulletin  describes  the  battle  of  Corunna,  in  .  Gurney,  Rector  of  Clements  .  Danes,  Mr.  Benjamin  Atricun,  hickour  troops,  as  may..be  -  - STYLE=superscript  expected;  were  defeated  son  of  the  rtev.  Dr.  Duncan,  and  Master  of  the  rantonNquare  o  ith  g  reat  loss  ;  whilst  that  of  the  French  was  comirara-  Academy,  to  Miss  Gordon,.  of  St.  Martin's-lane,  .  _  vely  trifling.  lie  has  explained  , STYLE=superscript  ho  wever, STYLE=superscript  i  n STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  very  —-  -  -,-----  .  _  -  7  _  -  -  '•  ,  I  .  .  uoglin.4  manner,  the  embarkation  of  (iiir•troopx,-  which  -  '  PRICE  OF  STOCKS  YESTERDAY.  .  Add  not  have  so  expe  !.ti‘ausly  taken  place,  had  their  tie-  .  3  per  Cent.  Cons.'  671-  , STYLE=superscript  =lndia,  Bonds  10;  it  pm.-4  per  .  Cent.  t  :at  been  so  very  decisive.  We  have  so  frequently  adverted  Cons.  82i  3-3  per  ent..  Reduced  er  i  4—Long  Annuities  )  the  impudence  and  lies  of  the  Corsican,  that  wur  Read-  4  !S  9-161-Lthrinium  *  po,—Exch.  Bills  12,  15  pm.—Lottery  74  will  spare  us  any  further  remarks  on  the  disgusting  rickets  £2l  19--Consols  for  Acclunts  67i.  ..  itti  , STYLE=superscript  ct.  •  a  .  t..,1,  a  d  ~  Ik  1  Ii  i  e  )11i  e  n  .  i  •  .  •  •  .  •  iln•  fed  awn  ,  !  !  ..  0W  .  1..!va  I  -  ~  •"
