text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  the  command  of  his  Royal  11igitness,  and  felt  it  their  duty  to  express  their  full  and  entire  approbation  of  its  present  and  actual  bi:,l•;C,  and  to  impute  that  tiouriAling  state  to  his  Royal  highness.  But  that  the  ilouse  most  humbly  submit  to  his  111aiesty,  that  un under  der under  all  the  circumstaoees  e  t  the  ease,  from  the  unbecoming.  and  ohappy  comae%  lion  into  which  lii.  Ito%  al  Highness  had  fallen,  and  from  the  direct  wound  which  would  lie  given  to  the  public  morals  and  religion  of  the  'Kingdom,  it  %vas  impossible  that  his  Jto  at  Highness  should  co:alone  any  longer  in  the  command  of  the  army.  The  Spea  having  read  this  Address,  which  was  proposed  as  an  Amendment,  •  MR.  Soar:  t:  conceived  it  his  duty  not  to  Suffer  the  proposed  Address  of  the  Hon.  Gentleman  to  pos,,  without  stating;  his  most  decided  objection.  Of  all  she  sourees  proposed,  it  appeared  to  him  most  objectionable.  The  flit.  Gentleman  had  proposed  ith  the  avowed  purpose  of  simplviliog  the  case  before  the  'Muse,  het  to  his  opinion  it  went  to  confound  and  perplex  what  before  was  perp'exed  and  confused  enough.  it  was  quite  Impossible  with  holy  justice,  he  thought.  to  the  Duke,  that  the  House  could  take  the  step  recommeoded  in  the  first  pro proposition  position proposition  of  the  Address,  couched  as  this  Address  was,  because  there  was  eo  distinct  general  proposition  contained  in  it.  Every  thing  was  insinuated,  hut  nothing  asserted  positively.  Scope  was  therefore  afforded  for  the  p:esumption  that  all  the  calum calumnies  nies calumnies  and  criminal  charges  laid  against  the  Doke,  were  substan substantiated.  tiated. substantiated.  For  his  own  part,  if  he  could  believe  him  guilty  Of  one  half  the  crimes  attributed  to  him,  he  would  be  the  first  'to  carry  a  Bill  of  Exclusion  to  the  Throne;  but  feeling  that  the  grounds  of  imputation  were  utterly  false,  it  was  quite  im impossible  possible impossible  he  could  consent  to  the  proposition  of  addressing  hi  3  'Majesty  for  the  purpose  of  depriving  his  Royal  Highness  of  the  command  of  the  army.  With  respect  to  the  imputation  of  an  'undue  influence  used  by  Mrs.  Clarke  over  the  Duke,  he  contend contended,  ed, contended,  that  the  , STYLE=superscript  paucity  of  the  cases  brought  before  the  Ilouse  was  a  concurring  proof  that  such  influence  did  not  prevail  to  any  ex extent.  tent. extent.  It  would  hecome  the  House  of  Commons  of  Great  Britain  to  avoid  failing  the  dupes  of  a  popular  cry,  (Bear!  hear!)  and  by  discarding  from  their  consideration  the  merits  of  so  faithful  :trervant  to  the  Public,  commit  an  act  of  injustice  as  undeserved  sis  it  was  unnecessary.  Lord  Fo  eteseom  6,  in  a  speech  of  considerable  length  and  energy,  expressed  his  intention  to  support  the  original  Motion,  proposed  by  Mr.  Wardle.  It  had  been  endeavoured,  by  several  l  Hon.  Gentlemen,  to  invalidate  the  testimony  of  Mrs.  ('hl  ke,  by  calling  in  questiln  the  leeality  of  her  evidence,  on  the  groom'  of  her  heiug  a  party  in  a  foul  conspiracy  against  his  Roxal  litghness.  It  hail  been  allowed,  however,  by  the  ma majority  jority majority  of  the  Members  of  the  House,  that  as  a  witness,  she  was  pcifectly  admieshle  and  satisfactory,  and  upon  a  consideration  of  her  eb  Okla  e  there  did  not  appear  to  exist  a  single  dllbity  or  suspicion  ii,  the  troth  a:td  correctness  of  her  statement.  The  Noofe  . STYLE=superscript  Lord  then  viten  into  a  detail  of  the  evident  e  adduced  in  p  r  i  pr  t  as  the  coaree  part  iculeri;:i  oe  these  facts,  in  w  hich  the  reuilm.o  a:  it  aetioni  of  Mrs.  in  coo  , STYLE=superscript  ceeion  ith  t!;  Duke,  aid  the  se..eral  neeocia:ions  10  Waich  was  concereed,  were  moo  conspicuous,  from  which,  after  an  elaborate  and  able  nrgn nrgn•tiirat  •tiirat nrgn•tiirat  he  observed,  that  she  was  both  a  competent  and  a  credible  wituese.  lie  also  adverted  to  several  other  parts  of  the  te;ridence,  which  from  our  limits  we  are  unable  fully  to  state.  The  Noble  Lord  asserted,  ;hat  there  bed  beeu  as  many  con conft.‘eiie;ions  ft.‘eiie;ions conft.‘eiie;ions  fa  the  ex  ;dein  e  of  Colonel  theolon  and  Mr.  Adam.  as  there  bad  been  in  that  of  Mrs.  Cia;ke,  and  that  cousiderne2-,  the  disadvantages  under  which  Mrs.  Clarke  laboured,  the  length  yf  tier  examinations,  and  the  little  indulgencies  which  had  been  ihexin  her,  it  was  only  wonderful  her  testinemy  had  !mien  so  free  hf  coinradiciions  and  lois-statement.  I  pot'  the  whole  he  felt  ritorouchlv  convinced  o:  the  ahsoltne  guilt  of  hi.s  Royal  High Higheess,  eess, Higheess,  ilitoourahie  Friend  had,  at  the  outset  of  his  endea endea%ours  %ours endea%ours  and  meritorioos  task,  for  w  hie!'  it  was  to  be  we-hod  he  'w  old  have  the  gratitude  of  the  Country,  was  threatened  in  un unqualified  qualified unqualified  terms,  that  if  he  failed  in  his  assertions,  that  most  ieno ienominions  minions ienominions  infamy  %shield  he  the  re  , STYLE=superscript  mit,  And  the  Right  Honour Honourable  able Honourable  Gentleman  who  ha'  made  that  threat.  had  not,  Fine('  the  period  of  its  utterance,  although  tit  ro‘vn  out  in  the  most  otVensive  manner,  made  atingle  attempt  to  apologize  for  its  irregularity.  lie  trusted,  however,  that  it'  the  rtiellt  ifonourable  (ieottenian  did  not  retract  hi-  words  the  intame  ss  ould  fall  on  himself:  The  Noble  Lord  concluded  1,)  e%  pressing  he,  determination  to  give  bis  rote  in  support  of  the  original  Addrue.  Mr.  ADA  t  defended  his  conduct  in  relation  to  the  Duke  of  York  :  and  concurred  in  the  course  of  peoceediegs  recernutttittca  by  the  Charctl!•:”  . STYLE=superscript  cf  the  F  xeltequer,  MARCII  I.  Mr.  W.  SMITH  thought,  that  from  the  facts  which  had  beeu  proved,  it  would  not  be  prudent  to  continue  his  Royal  Highness  in  the  command  of  the  army.  At  four  o'clock  the  House  adjourned  to  Monday."
