text
"FERROL  SQUADRON.  Lord  AUCKLAND  moved  for  the  instructions  sent  to  the  British  Generals  in  Spain,  with  regard  to  the  squadron  lying  at  Ferrol,  which  had  been  sullered  to  fall  into  the  hands  of  she  French,  as  he  did  not  think  it  possible  for  his  Majesty's  Mini-.  sters  to  have  neglected  taking,  such  measures  which  would  have  secured  such  a  valuable  squ  adron.  Lord  MIT  LGR  AV  E  declared,  that  Admiral  De  Courcy  having  applied  to  the  Admiral  commanding  at  Fri-nil,  in  order  that  the  ships  might  he  removed  to  a  more  secure  port,  received  for  answer,  that  Ferrol  was  a  strong  place  which  could  defend  itself,  and  that  it  was  thought  more  conducive  to  the  interest  of  the  Spanish  that  they  should  remain  there.  Acting  as  the  allies,  not  the  masters  of  Spain,  it  was  impossible,  after  such  an  answer,  that  any  violent  measure  should  be  taken  to  enforce  what  was  thought  by  the  Spaniards  contrary  to  the  interests  of  their  coun country.  try. country.  After  a  few  observations  from  Lord  Buckinghamshire,  Lord  Gray,  and  Lord  Mulgrave,  Lord  Auckland  agreed  to  withdraw  his  motion.  11'.4  TY.  Lord  DARN!  UV  understood,  since  he  had  entered  the  House,  that  no  opposition  would  be  made  to  the  motions  of  ‘i  hich  he  had  given  uotice.  He  would  therefore  merely  state  them.  Lord  fay  EneooL  said,  that  there  were  two  of  the  proposi propositions  tions propositions  to  which  he  could  not  accede.  The  first  was  the  produc production  tion production  of  Mr.  Canning';  letter  to  Mr.  Friere,  and  Mr.  Friere's  to  Sir  John  Moore.  These  communications  were  not  official,  nor  such  115  in  his  opinion  were  proper  for  pro  auction.  To  these  papers,  and  the  innructions  they  contained,  he  said,  the  ad advance  vance advance  of  the  army  into  Salamanca  could  not  he  justly  ascribed.  The  other  motion  of  the  Noble  Earl  which  he  felt  himself  hound  to  oppose  was,  the  letter  from  Mr.  Canning  to  Sir  flew  Dal Dalrymple,  rymple, Dalrymple,  dated  the  18th  of  September,  relative  to  the  Regency  in  Portugal,  and  with  which  were  connected  documents  relative  to  the  interior  government  of  that  country,  which  it  appeared  highly  improper  to  lay  before  the  public.  The  remaining  Motions  of  Lord  Darnley  were  deferred  until  the  grand  discussion  upon  the  affairs  of  Spain  shall  take  place  on  the  intended  Motion  of  Lord  tirey.—Adjourned.  HOUSE  OF  COMMONS.  Monday,  March  20.  THE  DUNE  OF  YORK.  The  Ctrk'stcrritott  of  the  Elicit  EQUER  said,  after  what  bad  passed  in  the  House  on  Saturday  morning,  his  Royal  Highness  *the  Duke  of  York  had  felt  it  his  duty  to  wait  upon  his  Ma Majesty  jesty Majesty  with  a  tender  of  his  resignation,  and  that  resignation  with  heartfelt  concern  and  regret,  had  been  accepted  by  his  Majesty.  The  reason  why  his  Royal  Highness  had  not  before  made  an  offer  of  resignation  was,  that  the  House  should  first  decide  upon  the  great  question  of  his  guilt  or  innocence  in  respect  to  the  al alleged  leged alleged  charge  of  corruption  or  criminal  connivance.  While  that  charge  remained  undecided,  if  his  Royal  Highness  had  resigned  his  situation,  it  would  have  seemed  as  if  he  had  done  so  to  avert  any  further  proceedings  against  him,  and  therefore  his  Royal  Highness  chose  rather  to  delay  his  resignation  till  the  House  had  come  to  a  decision  on  that  point,  than  leave  his  character  ex-.  posed  to  the  suspicion  of  having  done  any  thing  through  a  dread  or  apprehension  of  what  might  be  the  decision  of  the  House  on  a  question  so  material  to  his  character  and  honour.  Ile  was  au authorised  thorised authorised  by  his  Royal  Highness  to  make  the  communication  which  he  had  done,  and  the  regret  which  he  felt  on  the  occasion  would  not  permit  him  to  say  much  on  the  subject.  Mr.  BATliuttsr  said,  though  his  Royal  Highness  had  led  hi•  'st  of  Commander  in  Chief,  it  was  no  reason,  in"
