text
"16  -  -  !  ....  7  1,  1  ..  ~,  •t  LT  7k,  •  •  ..,  ..-,  .  1  1  ~•.  TI-IE  NATIONAL  It,  iGISTEIt•  been  shot  three  days  before  the  Corsican's  departure  for  Erfurth.  So  remarkable  an  occurrence  would  have  been  long  since  known  in  this  country.  It  must  likewise.be  re remarked  marked remarked  that  the  last  French  Papers  mention  the  departure  of  Massena  fur  the  Tyrol,  to  command  the  French  army  in  that  quarter.  We  believe  this  report  Originates  in  an  artifice,  too  successfully  practised  by  the  tyrant.  He  orders  a  number  of  rumours,  highly  disadvantageous  to  his  character,'  but  which  are  false  to  be  circulated  ;  that  the  persons,  who  arc  thus  deluded,  might  afterwards  disbe disbelieve  lieve disbelieve  facts  which  are  tru.  The  accounts  which  have  reached  Government  from  Hand  state,  that  General  Du  PONT,  who  surrendered  at  Baylen  to  CASTANOS  and  REDING,  had  been  tried  by  a  Court  Martial  and  condemned  to  death.  The  Sentence  was  shortly  afterwards  put  into  execution,  and  the  unfmtunate  DUPONT  was  shot  by  torch-light—  This  act  of  cruelty  evinces  no  less  the  noture  of  the  military  system  which  the  tyrant  wishes  to  uphold,  than  the  malignity  of  his  own  heart.  With  the  despot  of  the  Continent  to  be  unsuccessful  is  to  be  guilty.  We  learn  that  the  fate  of.  General  DUPONT  had  excited  among  the  principal  and  subordinate  Officers  of  the  French  army  considerable  discontent.  .  They  must  now  be  sensible,  that  they  cannot  aspire  to  the  favour  of  so  inexorable  a  Master,.  unkss  they  command  events  ;  and  that  in  case  of  failure  they  have  qo  alternative  but  to  perish  on  the  field  of  battle,  or  to  be  consigned  to  an  ignominious  death.  Private  letters  received  at  Rotterdam  from  Paris  add,  that  the  sad  and  indignant  seaxation  produced  by  the  execution  Or  DUPONT  was  not  confirmed  to  the  military.  It  had  ditrused  itself  through  all  ranks  of  society,  and  at  the  last  'visit  which  111Aroi,cosr  paid  to  the  Opera,  he  was  assailed  by  lend  'marks  of  disapprobation.  His  emissaries  and,  spies  were,  however,  on  the  alert,  and  several  persons  who  bad  the,  boldness  thus  to  express  their  feelings,  were  im immediately  mediately immediately  seized  and  imprifionech  it  was  generally  understood,  that  PONA  PARTE  would  leave  his  capital  for  Germany  about  the  3d  inst.  The  Senate  was  to  be  assembled  on  the  Ist,  when  his  final  de determination  termination determination  with  respect  to  the  . STYLE=superscript  prosecution  of  hostilities  against  4.ustria  was  expected  to  be  announced  in  the  usual  way.  -  The  following,  we  believe,  will  be  found  a  tolerably  correct  list  of  Sir  - STYLE=superscript  A:  WELLESLEY'S  staff,  and  of  the  General  Officers  employed  under  his  command.  The  Right  Honourable  - STYLE=superscript  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley,  K.  R.  Com Commander  mander Commander  of  the  For.es.  'Lieutenant-Colonel  Bathurst—Military  Secretary.  The  Honourable  Fitzrdy  Stanhope,  and  Lord  Fitzroy  •joinerset—Aides-,le-Camp.  Ilritadier-General  the  Bon.  Stewart--Adjutant  General.  Col.  Murray—Quarter Murray—Quartermaster  master Murray—Quartermaster  General'.  Maijor  Colin  Campbell  and  'Alajur  Berkeley  —Assistant  Adjutants  General.  GEN  ER  A  r.  (14  ICER  s.--Major-Cleneral  Sherbrooke,  Major-  Cienel'al  Card  William  Bentinek,  31ajor-qeneral  Ethvard  Paget,  7.llajer-General  ilill,'Major-General  Payne  and  Major-General  Cotton—Cavalry,  Alajor-General  John  Murray,  !%1  tip  r-cieneral  Mackenzie,'  Major-General  Beresford,  111ajor-(leneral  Alexan Alexander  der Alexander  Ca  mptwil  )  Lieut.-General  Cartwright  to  i  u  the  Cavalry••  •  -  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley,  and  his  Staff,  expected  to  sail  yes yesterday  terday yesterday  from  Portsmouth,  on  board  the  Surveil!lpte  fri  , STYLE=superscript  :ate  for  Lisbon.  The  Frederickstein  man  of  war  w  convoy  the  rest  of  the  transports.—His  Majesty's  ship  Magicienne  sailed  from  Falmouth  on  Wednesday  morning,  with  the  transports,  having  on  board  the  16th  Light  Dragoons,  but  they  were  compelled  to  return  in  the  course  - STYLE=superscript  of  the  day,  in  consequence  of  -ontrary  winds.  The  wind  having  veered  to  the  Northward,  in  the  course  of  the  evening,  the  convoy  vas  expected  to  sail  next  morning.  Intelligence  of  the  success  of  the  intended  attempt  to  de deslcuy.the  slcuy.the deslcuy.the  French  squadron  at  Isle  I)'Aix,  may  be  hourly  expected.  It  is  understood,  that  the  execution  will  be  committed  principally  to  Lord  Cochrane.  The  known  cha chakacter  kacter chakacter  of  that•Noble  , STYLE=superscript  nam,  and  h;s  recent  services  upon  the  e...0a4  of  Spain,  give  assurauce  that  uolhin  whiO  noble  24  daring  combined  with  sound  discretion  can  etlect,  will  be  !eft  undone  towards  the  accomplishment  of  the  enterprise.  A  report  was  strongly  prevalent  yesterday,  that  the  King  of  Sweden  had  been  delivered  from  confinement,  and  re restored  stored restored  to  the  possession  of  regal  authority.  This  event,  it  is  said,  was  accomplished  by  General  Toll,  and  a  large  body  of  Dalecarlians  ;  and  that,  in  consequence,  the  Duke  of  Sudermania  had  thought  proper  to  retreat.  to  Finland,  and  place  himself  under  the  protection  of  Russia.  The  arrival  of  the  flottenhurgh  Mails  is  anxiously  ex•  petted.  They  will  not  fail  to  bring  decisive  intelligence  concerning  the  fate  of  Sweden  and  her  King.  Further  it  is  ascertained,  by  intelligence  from  Gottenburg,  that  Lieutenant  Ross,  late  of  the  Victory,  who  was  with  Gus Gustavus  tavus Gustavus  at  the  time  of  his  being  arrested,  and  who  has  been  charged  with  important  dispatches,  had  already  left  Sweden  in  one  of  the  packets.  Letters  from  Holland,  received  on  Friday,brought  the  following  important  Decree  of  the  Dutch  Government.  which  is  to  take  place  from  the  Ist  instant,  and  by  which  the  followinr,,  articles  are  allowed  to  be  ex  ported  from  Har Harlinnen,  linnen, Harlinnen,  Zuyder  Zee,  Tervicr,  Brauerhafen,  Am Amsterdam,  sterdam, Amsterdam,  Rotterdam,  Dort,  Groningen,  anti  4mbtlen,  in  neutral  or  Dutch  ships  to  a  neutral  port:  Earthen-ware.  Vinegar,  Russian  and  Berlin  Blue,  Flower%  Roots,  Books,  Beans,  Butter,  Brandy,  Tiles,  Blue  and  White  Pease,  Oats,  Gauze,  Thread,  and  Thread  Tape,  Gin,  Hoops.  Watch  Movements,  all  kinds  or  Wooden-ware,  Dried  Jiides,  Cheqse,  Cambries,  Copper-ware,  Leather,  Linen,  White  Lead,  (Atte,  Madders,  Mill-stones,  Oil  of  Seeds,  Paper,  Perfumery,  Clocks,  pins,  Yining  Trees,  Pipes,  Slice:trim,  Saturnii,  (round  Oak,  !kirk,  Plisying:Cards,  Turf,  Starch,  tlinkvrs,  and  all  other  kinds  of  I:arthen7ware,  Tobacco,  (round  Tarras,  Linseed,  Fruits,  Wine  ,  'Clover,  and  Garden  Seeds,  iron-mongery  and  Silk-mercery.  And  the  following  articles  are  allowed  to  be  imported  in into  to into  Holland,  in  neutral  or  Dutch  ships,  from  neutral  ports:  Grain,  Hare-skins,  Hemp,  and  Hempseed,  all  kinds  of  Ship  Timber,  Russian  Hides,  Rape-iced,  Copper,  Quick-silver,  Lin Linseed,  seed, Linseed,  Alias,  Pitch,  Pot-ashrs,  Stock-tish.  Tobacco,  Tallow,  Tar,  Train-oil,  Isingla  , STYLE=superscript  s,  Barn',  Wine,  Iron,  Lead,  Candles,  Leather,  and  Hides  in  the  Rough.  It  will  at  once  be  seen  that  the  articles  frir  exportation  are  such  as  the  Dutch  markets  arc  •  overstocked  with,  amon&amp;  which  there  are  but  few  of  real  consequence  to  England,  Those  allowed  to  be  imported  are  such  at  France  is  in  the  greatest  want  of.  She  studiously  avoids  ex extending  tending extending  her  licence  to  Colonial  produce;  sugar  and  coffee  arc  not  named  in  the  list.  it  is  already  understood  that  Government  are  determined  not  to  sanction,  by  - STYLE=superscript  their  li licence,  cence, licence,  the  means  of  carryilg  this  Decree  into  effect,  and  that  the  Board  of  Trade  has  been  fully  instructed  on  that  point  ;  a  measure  in  which  we  inclined  to  think  they  will  be  sanctioned  by  the  country  at  large,  as  strongly  contri contributing  buting contributing  to  the  privations  and  annoyance  of  the  enemy.  The  Decree  in  que4tion  would  never  have  been  issued,  had  he  not  been  urged  to  it  by  the  d,scontent  of  the  people,  and  his  own  immediate  necessities.  A  vessel  has  arrived  at  Liverpool,  with  the  intelligence  that  the  .  American  Legislative  Body  has  ultimately  rejected  the  Bill  for  repealing  the  Bulbar  :  4.o  Laws.  This  information  has  caused  a  rise  in  articles  of  American  produce.  A  paper  entitled''  Obser%ations  by  an  Austrian  has  been  received  in  this  country.  It  forms  a  sort  of  vin vindication  dication vindication  of  the  Austrian  preparations  for  war,  or  rather  more  properly  speaking,  of  the  precautions  employed  for  self-defence.  It  consists  chiefly  of  arguments  in  refutation  of  pointed  attacks  and  calumnies  which  have  appeared  in  several  French  papers,  such  as  the  Gazette  de  France,  Le  Journal  de  !'Empire,  and  Le  Public  Ate.  Mr.  Wardle.  it  is  said,  means  after  the  recess  to  move  for  an  inquiry  into  abuses  consequent  upon  every  change  of  Administration,  arising  opt  of  the  courtesy  shCwn,  ac according  cording according  to  the  present.  system,  by  the  new  Ministers  to  their  predecessors  in  office.  We  hear  that  there  is.nothing  personal  in  the  intended  motion,  and  that  it  is  to  be  direct directed  ed directed  generally  against  the  system."
