text
"171  rizours  of  the  siege,  and  the  inflexibility  of  their  de defenders,  fenders, defenders,  and  made  signs  to  the  French,  inviting  them  to  occupy  the  town.  The  latter  completely  la  into  the  snare,  and  detached  a  corps  of  12,000  Alen  to  take  immediate  advantage  of  the  apparent  conta contagion.  gion. contagion.  They  had  no  sooner  entered  the  streets,  than  they  were  furonslv  assailed  by  these  very  women,  the  townsmen,  and  a  part  of  the  garrison  ;  and,  it  is  reported,  that  the  carnage  was  dreadful,  that  only  800  of  t  he  bri brigands  gands brigands  escaped.  Six  hundred  of  these  generous  ftmales  - STYLE=superscript  were  killed  on  the  occasion.  We  received  on  Friday,  a  series  of  Monitenrs  to  the  28th  ult.  Their  contents  as  far  as  they  refer  to  Austria,  are  blended  with  rancour,  misstatement,  and  ill-disguised  hostility.  The  only  article  of  importance  they  contain  is  an  intercepted  letter,  said  to  he  written  by  the  Editor  of  the  Vienna  Gazette  to  the  Editor  or  the  Hamburg  Cor Corre•spondenten.  re•spondenten. Corre•spondenten.  This  letter,  which  the  French  thought  of  sufficient  importance,  as  to  consider  it  deserving  of  pub-  Ccity,  corroborates  our  observations  relative  to  the  ARCH ARCHDUKE  DUKE ARCHDUKE  CHAHLEN,  and  the  Austrian  'Military  force.  The  following  is  a  faithful  copy  of  this  letter  :  N  t,  FEn.  4.—The  question  of  peace  or  war,  and  the  part  that  Austria  is  to  take,  has  been  for  a  long  lime  the  subject  ,►f  much  uncertainty  in  conversation.  This  uncertainty  arises  from  our  ignorance  of  how  Austria  actually  stands  with  Russia.  Within  th2,e  two  days  the  rumour  of  war  has  gained  much  ground.  The  whole  Austrian  force  is  to  he  divi►led  into  three  ar armies.  mies. armies.  The  Emperor  in  person  will  take  the  command  of  one  Of  them,  with  Qaat  ter-Master-Geo.  Chastoler  under  him.  The  2d  will  be  commanded  by  the  Archduke  Charles,  with  the  Prince  of  Lichtenstein  and  Quarter-Master-Gen.  Moyer  under  him.  The  third  will  be  confided  to  the  Archduke  John,  wiih  General  Bach  for  his  Quarter-Masser-General.  This  army  appears  des destined  tined destined  to  take  a  position  in  interior  Austria.  The  Counsellor  of  State  Fassbinder,  and  Counts  Taurau  and  Charles  Zychy  were  appointed  to  it  A  Russian  Messenger  has  certainly  arrived  in  this  coun country.  try. country.  He  came  over  in  the  Auckland  packet,  and  was  landed,  oa  Wednesday  List,  at  Aldborough.  The  pretended  object  of  his  arrival  is  to  bring  dispataks  to  Admiral  Sr Sr;  ; Sr;  but  we  are  positively  informed  that  he  is  the  bearer  of  dispatches  to  our  gvr►erntnent.  We  long  an.  ticipated,  as  our  Readers  will  recollect,  a  change  of  Rus Russian  sian Russian  politics;  and  were  convinced  that  the  presence  of  the  Qu  EE  'V  of  PRUSSIA  would  effect  a  revolution  in  the  political  system  of  the  Court  of  St.  Petersburg.  We  always  concluded  that  the  journey  of  that  amia amiable  ble amiable  and  illustrious  woman  was  undertaken  for  that  purpose.  Those  who  had  an  opportunity  of  observing  the  conduct  of  the  QUEEN  after  the  battle  of  Jena,  of  admiring  her  meg•  nanimity  and  imperturbable  serenity,  after  the  disaster*  . STYLE=superscript  which  beret  her  country,  are  alone  capable  of  appreciating  her  character.  She  never  bent  to  the  tyrant,  she  never  at attempted  tempted attempted  to  appease  him  in  the  very  zenith  ()figs  success,and  in  the  declension  of  her  own  fortunes.  She  remained  con conalstent  alstent conalstent  and  great  to  the  last,  detesting  the  ravager  of  country,  and  despising  the  wretch,  who  had  employed  all  the  arts  of  hell  to  blacken  her  fair  name.  An  Austrian  Alessenger  has  also  arrived  in  the  Auckland  packet,and  is  said  to  have  brought  to  our  government  a  formal  notification►  of  hostilities  with  France.  Since  his  arrival,  it  is  stated,  that  the  Cabinet  of  Vienna  has  made  a  demand  of  six  millions  as  a  loan,  and  an  army  of  60,000  men.  We  confidently  trust,  our  Government  will  comply  with  both  demands.  Extra Extraordinary  ordinary Extraordinary  sacrifices  and  exertions  can  alone  save  Europe  and  ourselves.  Among  other  rumours  it  is  said,  that  70,000  Prussian  troops  arc  in  readiness  to  take  the  field,  iu  conjuctiou  with  Austria.  We  haVe  long  anticipated  this  war.  We  have,  for  several  weeks,  endeavoured  to  direct  the  attention  of  the  public  to  an  occurrence,  the  most  momentous  whisk  could,  perhaps,  occur  within  the  range  of  the  possible.  But  the  contrary  opinion  was  too  deeply  rivetted,  to  be  weakead  by  any  mode  of  reasoning,.  however  acute,  how-  P14_TB00005"
