text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  MARCH  5.  tion  of  patronage.  During  the  investigation  at  the  Bar  of  the  House  of  Commons,  into  the  conduct  of  the  Comman Commander  der Commander  in  Chief,  several  most  profligate  jobs  have  been  volun voluntarily  tarily voluntarily  disclosed  to  Mr.  Wardle  and  other  Members.  Wednesday,  about  two  o'clock,  his  Majesty  held  a  private  Levee,  at  the  Queen's  Palace.  Among  the  numerous  pre.  sentations  was—  Don  Pedro  de  ('evallos,  Ambassador  Extraordinary  from  the  Supreme  J  iota  of  Spain,  acting  in  the  name  of  his  Catholic  Ma Majesty,  jesty, Majesty,  by  Mr.  Canning,  his  Majesty's  Principal  Secretary  of  State  for  Foreipt  Aifairs,  and  conducted  by  Colonel  Chester,  the  Deputy  Master  of  the  Ceremonies;  spun  which  occasioo  his  Excellency  had  an  audience  of  his  Majesty,  and  delivered  his  creilential-,  and  he  was  most  graciously  received.  Ms  Majesty  held  a  Privy  Council,  at  which  Lord  Brown Brownlow  low Brownlow  was  introduced,  and  sworn  in  Lord  Lieutenant  of  the  County  of  Lincoln.  His  Majesty  gave  audiences  to  the  Duke  of  Portland  and  the  rest  of  the  Cabinet  Ministers  present.  Thursday,  about  two  o'clock,  her  Majesty,  Princesses  Augusta,  Elizabeth,  Marv,  and  Amelia,  left  the.  Queen's  Palace  in  their  carriages,  dressed  in  their  Court  Dresses,  escorted  by  a  party  of  the  Life  Guards,  and  proceeded  to  the  new  entrance,  by  the  garden,  to  St.  James's  Palace.  The  novelty  of  the  Royal  Family  going  to  Court  in  state  attracted  a  great  number  of  persons  in  the  Park.  At'A  Court  of  Common  Council  on  Thurssday,  at  Guild Guildhall.  hall. Guildhall.  The  Committee  of  City  Lands  presented  a.  Report,  relative  to  removing  the  Market,  now  held  at  Smithfield,  to  the  Spa  Fields,  which  was  read,  and  the  consideration  thereof  ai!lnurncd  until  the  next  Court;  and  it  was  ordered  to  be  pria!ed,  and  a  copy  sent  to  each  Member  of  the  Court.  INorA-Itousr.—On  Friday  a  Court  of  Directors  was  held,,  when  the  under-mentioned  Commanders  took  leave  of  the  Court,  previous  to  departing  for  their  respective  destina destinations,  tions, destinations,  viz.  Cartain  Joseph  Yates,  City  of  London  ;  Capt.  James  Mur Murray  ray Murray  Devonshire;  and  Capt.  Rd.  Colnett,  Castle  Edeu,  for  Ma.  drag  and  Bengal.  Captain  Benjamin  Richardson,  Albion,  for  Chinadirect.  The  Court  adjourned  at  six  o'clock.  VIES  /  PAPS'  LOXDOS  GAZETTE.  BANKRUPTS.  Stephen  Atkinso►►,  Newcastle-upon-Tyne,  insurance  -broker,  to  surrender,  March  4,  21,  and  April  11,  at  eleven,  at  the  Si►ak Si►akspeare  speare Si►akspeare  Tavern,  Newcastle-upon-Tv  nc.  Attornies,  Mr.  Atkin Atkinson,  son, Atkinson,  Chancery-lane;  and  Mr.  Bainbridge,  Newcastle-upon-  Tyne.  Will'a►n  Harwood,  Tiverton,  blacksmith,  March  9,  10,  and  April  11,  at  ten,  at  the  Angel  Inn,  Tiverton.  A  ttorilies,  Messrs.  flake  and  Son,  Took's-court,  Carey-street,  London  ;  and  Messrs.  Wood  and  Strong,  Tiverton.  Robert  Knott,  Wymondhatn,  Norfolk,  shopkeeper,  March  10,  11,  and  April  11,  at  five,  at  the  Angel,  Mancroft,  Norw  ich.  At.  tornies,  Mr.  Grand,  Norwich  ;  and  Mr.  Presland,  Brunswick Brunswicksquare.  square. Brunswicksquare.  London.  Francis  Sontherton,  Tiverton,  Devon,  dealer.  March  9,  10,  and  April  11,  at  ten,  at  the  Angel  Inn,  Tiverton.  Attornies,  Mr.  Fairbank,  Ely-place,  Holbnrn  ;  and  Mr.  Hellings,  Tiver Tiverton,  ton, Tiverton,  Devon.  William  Dempsey  and  John  Acraman,  Bristol,  tailors,  March  2,  16,  and  April  11,  al  eleven,  at  the  Bush  Tavern,  Corn-street,  Bristol.  Attorni..-s,  Mr.  Bayly,  Corn-street,  Bristol  ;  and  My.  Edmunds,  Lincoln's-Inn,  London.  Samuel  Whittle,  jun.  Shitinall,  Salop,  grocer,  March  17,  at  five,  18,  and  April  11,  at  eleven,  at  the  Talbot  Inn,  Shilinall.  Attorneys  Mr.  Corset,  Wolverhampton.  George  Crew,  Waltham-cross,  Hertford,  tailor,  March  1,  4.  and  April  11,  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Thomas,  Fen-court,  Fenchurc:i-street.  John  Todhunter,  Preston,  lonatister,  linen  and  woollen-dra woollen-draper,  per, woollen-draper,  March  21,  22,  and  April  'll,  at  eleven,  at  the  White  Horse  Inn,  Preston.  Attornies,  Messrs.  Barrels,  Gray's-Inn  ;  and  Mr.  Startifant,  Preston.  '  Smith  )  ?arises,  Heats,  liaeu.draper,  March  1418,  r  _  I  ‘  I  ara  P12_TB00018 i"
