text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  104  Charles-street,  St.  James's-square,  Oct.  20th,  1808.  My  Dear  Madam---So•rie  friends  of  the  Rev.  T.  Benzley  are  desirous  of  procuring  him  sorni•  promotion  in  the  church.  The  vacam  Deanery  of  Salisbury  appears  to  offer  an  advantageous  Opportunity  for  that  purpose,  Application  must  he  made  to  the  Puke  of  Portland.  Some  Ladies,  at  the  head  of  whom  is  Lady  Cardigan,  have  subscribed  2000  oaiiueas,  which  sum  is  ready  to  be  deposited  .  Mr,  Beazley  has  i STYLE=superscript  'heen  introduced  to  the  Queen,  by  whom  he  was  favourably  received,  in  consequence  of  bis  having  written  a  pamphlet,  called  The  Claims  of  the  Roman  Catholics  constitutionally  He  is  chap chaplain  lain chaplain  to  the  Doke  of  Gloucester  and  to  the  Bishop  of  Lin Lincoln,  coln, Lincoln,  and  is  strongly  recommended  by  the  Marquis  of  Mat Matfett!,  fett!, Matfett!,  and  the  Bishops  of  Norwich  and  Salisbury.  From  the  estimation  in  which  he  is  held,  the  Ladies  are  very  stn  roils  on  the  su!)jeci,  and  at  the  same  time  are  desirous  that  the  affair  may  he  accomplished  without  his  knowledge,  in  order  to  afford  him  an  agreeable  surprise.  They  are  even  willing  that  their  agency  should  remain  a  secret,  and  that  his  Grace  should  )cave  the  w  hole  merit  of  selecting  a  man  of  such  distinguished  ability  and  virtue.  I  am,  &amp;c.  (Signed)  T,  DONOVAN.  Charles-street,  St.  James'sisquare,  Dec.  23,1308.  •  My  Dear  Madam,--I  have  been  excessively  plagued  about  the  Sayan:llh  le  Mar  business,  and  also  about  the  Paymastership  of  the  21  Battalion,  as  sv-  it  situation  in  the  Commissariat.  —  D  1  r..  Howse  requests  me  to  thank  you  for  your  very  great  kind kindness.  ness. kindness.  (Signed)  J.  DONOVAN.  Arter  the  minutes  of  Mr.  Pearsnu's  former  evidence  were  read,  Vie  Chairman  proceeded  to  examine  him.—Q.  Is  there  any  point  Of  his  evidence  which  the  witness  would  wish  In  alter,  or  omit,  or  to  which  he  would  wish  to  add  ?  A.  No.  Onthe  night  when  his  Royal  Highness.  the  Duke  of  York  went  to  Weymouth,  about  eleven  o'clock,  i  was  sent  out  to  get  a  bill  changed.  I  got  it  changed,  and  when  I  returned  gave  the  change  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  who  looked  it  over,  and  said  it  was  all  right.  The  Duke  of  was  present,  both  when  I  received  the  bill  from  Mrs.  Clarke,  ;Ind  when  I  gave  her  the  change.—Q.  What  was  the  amount  of  the  bill  which  the  witness  got  changed?  A.  I  believe  it  Was  a  hill  for  lOW.  but  I  am  not  quite  certain.  General  Clavering  was  ordered  to  come  in,  and  examined  by  the  ATTO  RX  EY-GEN  When  had  you  first  any  know,.  ledge  of  Mrs.  Clarke?  A,  About  sir  years  ago.—Q.  What  was  the  intent  or  purpose  of  your  culling  on  Mrs.  Clarke  lately  ?  A.  1  heard  that  every  person  Mrs,  Clarke  had  any  converse-„  lion  with  was  to  he  called  before  the  House,  and  that  my  name  was  mentioned,  in  consequence  of  which  I  wrote  a  let letter  ter letter  to  Mr.  Wartlie,  in  which  I  mentioned  that  any  testimony  I  could  give  would  make  against  the  veracity  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  as  be  knew  her  to  heliving  under  the  protection  of  Mr.  Mellish.—  Q.  14y  Mr.  Sogatoast.  Did  he,  the  witness,  ever  use  his  Prertions  to  bring  up  Lord  John  Campbell,  from  Scntlaad,  on  Ole  Defence  ?  A.  No,  he  never  did.  The  Marquis  of  TlTctlFict.D  said,  he  wished  to  state  to  the  house  the  particulars  of  Mr.  Beasly's  application  for  the  Dean Deanery  ery Deanery  of  Salisbury.  This  application  was  treated  with  the  contempt  and  scorn  it  merited,  and  orders  were  given  that  Mr.  Reasly  might  never  again  he  admitted  to  Portland  House.  To  prevent  any  bad  comequences„  his  Noble  Relative  wrote  a  fetter  to  the  Bishop  of  London,  inclosing  that  from  Mr.  B.  which  was  also  put  inaod  read  by  the  Clerk.  He  comtneated  in  prong  terms  on  the  folly,  assurance,  and  misconduct  of  Mr.  R.  which  his  Grace  thought  it  necessary  to  be  known  to  the  head  of  )09  /linen*,  Iu  aacwer  to  this  letter  another  had  been  received  from  the  Bi-shop  of  London,  (also  read),  lamenting  this  worth worthle,s  le,s worthle,s  4nd  weak  man  had  two  chaples  in  his  Diocese,  and  recom recomeading  eading recomeading  to  the  Duke  of  Portland,  since  he  had  the  proofs  of  his  kropeturt  to  do  Justice  to  the  Church  and  the  Public.  The  Serjeane  was  ordered  to  inquire  if  there  was  any  one  from  the  home  of  Marsh  and  Co.  there.  4  person  having  appeared,  he  was  thus  interrogated:  Q.  Did  no  cheques  of  the  Duke  of  York's  pass  through  your  bands  I  A.  Nn.-„•Q.  No  cheque  its  favour  of  Mrs.  Clarke  A.  Auy  hills  of  Mrs.  Clarke's  drawing  or  accepting  ?  A.  j10..A.  My  of  his  Rnval  If  ighnets  the  Duke  of  York's  draw drawitsg  itsg drawitsg  or  itecepting  t  A.  Loa4tig  examined  by  Mr.  PICACEIT  AL.  What  eitnatioa  -  -  the  twits  hold  ?  A.  lam  as  s  istant  Highness  the  Command,  i►  'TB.  it  every  alteration  that  took  place,•  in  the  letter  of  service  was  maturely  weighed  before  it  was  agrerd  to.  Mr.  DANOVA  Dr  examined  by  Mr.  WatitvLsg.  Q.  Does  the  witness  know  by  whose  influence  promotion  was  effected  ?  A.  I  do  not  ;  but  I  remember  Captain  Sanden  in.  forming  me  that  he  knew  a  person  who  had  the  power  to  pro.-  cure  promotions  in  the  army  but  he  did  not  tell  me  who  be  was.  —Q.  wh  im  did  the  witness  suppose  that  person  to  be?  A.  I  suppose  the  person  meant  Was  Mrs.  Clarke.—Q.  Did  Captain  Sanden  state  nothing  relative  to  the  extensive  power  of  that  person  ?  A.  He  told  me  that  person  had  influence  enough  to  promote  lieutenants  to  be  captains,  and  captains  to  be  majors,  and  majors  lieut.  colonels.  Lord  Fo  t  }urn  N  e.—Q.  Who  does  the  witness  believe  to  he  instrumental  in  the  promntiou  of  Major  Tonyn  ?  A.  I  believe  Mrs.  Clarke  was  —Q.  Did  Mrs.  Clarke  ever  tell  the  witness  that  the  Duke  of  York  was  in  any  respect  privy  to  these  money  transactions  ?  A.  Yes.  Q.  By  Sir  THOMAS  TURTON.—Q.  What  were  the  terms  Mrs.  Clarke  Insisted  on  the  Duke  of  York's  fulfilling,  nr  that  she  would  publish  the  papers  and  expose  him  ?  A.  The  payment  of  her  debts  and  . STYLE=superscript  annuity.—Q.  Did  she  apply  to  you  to  assist  her  in  carrying  these  threats  into  execution?  A.  She  did.—Q.  To  what  extent  are  you  acquainted  with  this  business  ?  She  told  me  that  if  she  made  a  disclosure  of  her  power,  the  Duke  of  Ynrk  would  he  ousted  from  his  command,  would  retire  to  °Atlantis,  and  soon  cut  his  throat.—  Q.  How  could  the  witness  say  that  many  other  persons  would  be  implicated?  A.  She  mentioned  one  or  two  who  offered  money  for  the  papers  in  her  possession.  —Q.  Who  were  they  A.  Sir  F.  Burdett  was  one.  She  said,  he  had  about  eighteen  months  before,  otfered  her  40001.  for  them,  but  she  would  not  take  less  than  10,000  f.—Q.  Who  were  the  others  ?  A.  There  was  hut  one  more.—Q.  Who  was  it  ?  A.  It  was  Capt.  Dodd.  Q.  What  sum  did  Mrs.  Clarke  say  he  offered  for  the  papers?  A,  She  did  not  specify  any  sum.—Q.  Does  he  know  Capt.  Dodd'4  situation?  A.  No.—Q.  Does  be  know  it  to  be  official  under  the  Duke  of  Kent  ?  A.  I  believe  it  is.  Capt.  Sanders  examined  by  Mr.  WAnnLE.—Q.  What  does  he  know  respecting  Major  Tonyn's  promotion  from  the  48th  to  the  31st  Regiment  ?  A.  I  informed  Mrs.  Clarke  of,  this,  and  she  desired  me,  by  all  means,  to  close  with  the  offer.  About  two  months  or  ten  weeks  after  Capt.  Tonyn  sent  to  say,  that  as  it  did  not  appear  we  could  get  the  business  completed,  he  wished  to  have  his  memorandum  back  again.  I  met  Captain  Tonyn,  and  prevailed  on  him  to  stop  for  a  week  or  ten  days,  which  he  said  did  not  signify  much,  as  his  father,  Gen.  Tonyn,  had  applied  in  his  favour  to  the  Commander  in  Chief,  who  had  promized  him  the  first  majority  that  was  vacant.  This  might  be  about  Wednesday,  and  on  the  Saturday  or  Tuesday  following  the  majority  of  Capt.  Tonyn  was  in  the  Gazette  ;  and  the  500  enineas  paid  as  stipulated,  of  which  sum  Mrs.  Clarke  received  500'.  and  Mr.  Donovan  251.  _  Q.  By  Sir  T.  TURTON—Did  Mrs.  Clarke  say  that  Major  Tonyn  procured  his  appointment  through  her  influence  ?  A.  She  sniri  she  got  him  Gazetled.—Q.  Through  her  iolluetwe  with  the  Duke  ?  A.  Yes."
