text
"THE  14ATIONAL  REGISTEIt:  I  the  words  of  one  of  oar  most  illustrious  writers,  can  teach  tt.e  passions  to  move  at  the  command  of  virtue.  Hence  his  name  i,:  betnanely  enrolled  among  the  really  valuable  members  of  more  than  one  of  those  philanthropic  institutions  which  reflect  lustre  on  our  Metropolis  ;  and-  hence,  ton,  he  is  continually  called  upon  publicly  to  plead  the  cause  of  the  afflicted  and  destitute  !  I  find,  from  edi.ntry  newspapers  which  actideotally  came  under  my  inspection,  that  about  the  middle  of  last  October,  Mr.  Yates,  who  had  then  gone  to  the  sea-side  in  quest  of  health,  Collected,  by  means  Of  varidus  sermons  preached  by  him  in  Brighton  and  its  vicinity,  the  sum  of  2421.  on  behalf  of  the  Deaf  and  Dumb  Children,  educated  in  .  the  Asylum  at  Bermondsey.  The  contribution  at  the  Chapel  Royal,  at  Brighton,  amounted  to  1881.  ;  and,  It  is  added,  that  the  collection,  at  this  chapel,  had  on  no  similar  occasion  exceeded  1001.  There  is  likewise  now  before  me  a  Sermon,  preached  at  the  Anniversary  of  the  Royal  Humant  Society,  on  the  llith  of  April,  1801,  which  does  high  credit  to  the  feelings  and  talents  of  this  preacher.  The  same  charitable  indefatigability,  the  same  spirit  of  going  about  doing  good,  early  engaged  Mr.  Yates  in  promoting  the  establishment  of  the  Literary  Fund;  of  which  society  he  has  long  evinced  himself  truly  estimable  as  a  member,  and  is  al  this  time  one  of  its  Treasurers.  I  have  adverted  to  the  rank  which  this  Gentleman  sustains  in  the  world  of  letters.  His  Monastic  History  of  St.  Edmund's  Bury,  proves  with  what  justice  he  bears  the  distinction  of  F.S.  A.:  while  he  has  recently  circulated  proposals  for  publishing,  undtr  the  patronage  of  the  Eat!  of  Chichester,  '  Memoirs  of  Public  Charities:  an  Historical  Illustration  of  the  origin,  progress,and  present  state  of  the  Charitable  Institutions  in  and  around  the  Cities  of  London  and  Westminster;  with  Historical  Anecdotes  illustrative  of  their  beneficial  effects,  and  Biographical  Notices  of  the  Founders,  most  active  Supporters,  and  chief  Benefactors  of  the  several  Institutions?'  He  is  perfectly  qualified  for  this  laborious,  but,  if  fully  accomplished,  useful  and  meritorious  undertaking.  The  whole  task  of  education  at  the  university,  public  Schools,  private  families,  and  in  foreign  travels  devolves  upon  the  clergy.  A  great  part  of  the  literature  of  their  adds  the  Edinburgh  Reviewer  whom  I  have  already  quoted,  44 STYLE=superscript  is  in  their  May  there  never  be  wanting  clergymen  to  undertake  the  education  of  our  youth  ;  and  may  the  whole  task  of  continue  for  ever  in  their  Lamentable  *ill  be  the  state  of  morals  among  us,  if  ever  any  essential  portion  gi  of  the  task  of  is  transferred  from  the  clergy  of  our  Country.  As  to  the  literature  of  their  it  is  another  source  of  satisfaction  to  me  when  I  am  told  that  great  of  this  also  in  the  of  ecclesiastics.  In  what  other  could  it  be  so  eligibly  placed  ?  I  wish,  let  me  boldly  confess  it,  that  even  more  of  our  literature  was  under  the  superintendence  of  our  clergy.  It  is  pleasing,  it  is  seriously  gratifying  to  me,  when,  as  in  the  instance  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Yates,  I  perceive  clergymen  commendably  interested  in  the  cultivation  of  literature,  puu  demonstrating,  by  the  productions  of  the  study,  that  their  mental  ardour  does  not  evaporate  in  the  pulpit  ;  but  that,  familiarising  themselves  lo  intellectual  and  laudable  exertion,  they  carry  with  them,  into  every  department  of  useful usefulness,  ness, usefulness,  those  qitalifitations  which,  without  improperly  interfer interferire;  ire; interferire;  with  their  legitimate  and  higher  pursuits,  render  them  berme  icial  and  eligible  characters  in  human  society.  Of  this  order  of  excellence  is  Mr.  Yates.  Estimable  as  a  Oreaciter,  and  approved  as  a  scholar,  he  is  also  extensively  rc rcepected,  epected, rcepected,  as  a  man;  and  while  he  is  applauded  for  his  public  talents  and  attainments,  he  is,  if  possible,  still  more  valued  for  those  private  virtues  which  tnost  eesentiaily  conduce  to  the  sum  4f  general  happiness.  14,  Oxxszmus.  CAUTION  TO  TIlk:  READER!  45  •*  •  ON  E'.l  vs  considers  himself  immediately  and  indispet indispetsibl3  sibl3 indispetsibl3  called  upon  to  protest,  in  the  most  explicit  manner,  against  .he  assumption  of  the  Signature  attached  to  Popular  Preachers,  by  the  anonymous  Author  of  two  volumes,  very  recently  ad-  . STYLE=superscript  vcrtised,  entitled  LETTERS  onGuillg  and  iteligiuus  Sultiectg,  U.;  shelving  the  difference  between  true  ChriNtanity  and  Religious  .  .Ipostary,  &amp;c.  Bs  Os  csistus.'  These  volumes  are  also  artfully  represented  as  being  published  by  request.  This  paltry  expedient,  on  the  part  of  the  Author  of  the  above abovementioned  mentioned abovementioned  two  volumes;  to  acquire  for  himself  public  attention,  betrays  alike  his  owd  Meanness  mid  the  superiority  of  the  in individual  dividual individual  whose  popular  signature  has  been  SO  unkandbouiely  ap appropriated  propriated appropriated  by  him.  Let  him  plume  himself  if  he  can,after  this  caution,  upon  his  pitiful  dishonesty  !  If,  however,  the  pub publishers  lishers publishers  of  these  volumes  are  really  respectable  booksellers,  they  will  no  longer  countenance  this  literary  imposition.  ONSSIXIIIII.  ECCLESIASTICAL  PROMOTIONS.  The  Right  lion.  Anne  Elizabeth  Christine,  Countess  Dowarr  -  of  Athlone,  has  been  pleased  to  appoint  the  Rev.  S.  P.  Stock Stockford,  ford, Stockford,  B.  D.  Rector  of  St.  Aldate's,  in  Oxford,  to  be  her  Domes Domestic  tic Domestic  Chaplain.  Wednesday,  the  4th  inst.  the  .Associate  Congregation  of  Stow.  gave  an  unanimous  call  to  the  Rev.  Mr.  Lawson,  Galashiels.  Mr.  Robert  Gee,  B.  A.  of  Queen's  college,  is  elected  a  Fel Fellow  low Fellow  of  Catharine  hall.  The  Rev.  John  James.,  M.  A.  Fellow  of  St.  John's  college.  Oxford,  is  elected  Grammar  Master  of  the  Free  Schools  at  Chi;  well,  in  Essex,  void  by  the  resignation  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  Freeman.  The  Rev.  John  Salter  is  instituted  to  the  Vicarage  orStralton,  St.  Margaret,  Wilts.  The  Rev.  R.  Buch  Matthews,  M.  B.  has  been  instituted  to  the  Vicarage  of  Vesthall,  in  Suffolk,  on  the  presentation  oldie  Dean  and  Chapter  of  Norwich.  The  Duke  of  Clarence  has  appointed  the  Rev.  Peter  Wantl,  A.B.  of  Oriel  College,  Oxford.,  to  be  one  of  his  1t.0.1  1;  igh-;  mess's  domestic  Chaplains.  P13_TB00011 w„,.,.....-----------.,  .  ..  F  JAN.  IL  S  HE  14ATIONAL  REGISTER  — STYLE=superscript  :  45  N  .  .  ...  the  words  of  one  of  our  most  illustrious  writers,  can  teach  tte  CIUTION  TO  l'Ilk:  READER!  S.  passions  to  move  at  the  commend  of  virtue.  Hence  his  name  is  **•  0  N  E'.l  Sirs  considers  himself  immediately  and  indisp  e STYLE=superscript  t  - STYLE=superscript  ..  hutnanely  enrolled  among  the  really  valuable  members  of  more  sibl  3  called  upon  to  protest,  in  the  most  explicit  manner  , STYLE=superscript  against  I  s  m STYLE=superscript  '  than  one  of  those  philanthropic  institutions  which  reflect  luitre  .he  assumption  of  the  Signature  attached  to  Popular  P  reachers, STYLE=superscript  1.,  on  our  Metropolis;  and-  hence,  ton,  he  is  continually  called  by  the  ationpnous  Author  of  two  volumes,  very  recently  ad-. STYLE=superscript  .  .  upon  publicly  to  plead  the  cause  of  the  afflicted  and  destitute  !  vertised,  entitled  '  LETTERS  une  I/  litl  •  •  Subject,  3 STYLE=superscript  a;c  •  fu,...4  anc  c.igiuus  ..,  I  find,  &amp;Om  cissntry  riewspapers  which  actideotally  came  under  shelving  the  difference  between  true  ChriNtnnity  and  Religious  lk  , STYLE=superscript  „  my  inspection,  that  about  the  middle  of  last  October,  Mr.  dpostacy,  &amp;c.  Bs  Os  Estm  us.'  These  volumes  are  also  artfully  k  ;  Yates,  who  had  then  gone  to  the  sea-side  in  quest  of  health,  represented  as  being  published  by  request.  Pli  t  Collected,  by  means  Of  varidus  sermons  preached  by  him  in  This  paltry  expedient,  on  the  part  of STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  Author STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  above- STYLE=superscript  N  Brighton  and  its  vicinity,  the  sum  of  2421.  on  behalf  of  the  Deaf  mentioned  two  volumes;  to  acquire  for  himself  public  atteutiuti,  end  Dumb  Children,  educated  in  the  Asylum  at  Bermondsey.  betrays  alike  his  own  meanness  and  the  superiority  of  the  in-  The  41.  ~,  contributinn  at  the  Chapel  Royal,  at  Brighton,  amounted  dividual  whose  popular  signature  has  been  so  unhandsomely  ap-  to  la/.  ;  and,  It  is  added,  that  the  collection,  at  this  chapel,  'propriated  by  him.  Let  him  plume  himself  if  he  can,efter  this  )  had  on  no  similar  occasion  exceeded  1001.  There  is  likewise  caution,  upon  his  pitiful  dishonesty  !  lf,  however,  the  pith-  ii  now  before  me  a  Sermon,  preached  at  the  Anniversary  of  the  fishers  of  these  volumes  are  really  respectable  booksellers,  they  Royal  Humana  Society,  on  the  lath  of  April,  1807,  which  will  no  longer  countenance  this  literary  imposition.  does  high  credit  to  the  feelings  and  talents  of  this  preacher.  ONSSIMUS.  .---,-,-......  The  same  charitable  indefatigability,  the  same  spirit  of  going  about  doing  good,  early  engaged  Mr.  Yates  in  promoting  the  ECCLESIASTICAL  PROMOTIONS.  establishment  of  the  Literary  Fund  ;of  which  society  he  has  The  Right  lion.  Anne  Elizabeth  Christine,  Countess  Dowager  -  long  evinced  himself  truly  estimable  as  a  member,  and  is  al  this  of  Athlone,  has  been  pleased  to  appoint  the  Rev.  S.  P.  Stock-  time  one  of  its  Treasurers.  ford,  B.  D.  Rector  of  St.  Aldate's,  in  Oxford,  to  be  her  Domes-  tic  Chaplain.  I  have  adverted  to  the  rank  which  ibis  Gentleman  sustains  in  Wednesday,  the  4th  inst.  the  Associate  Congregation  of  Stow,  the  world  of  letters.  His  Monastic  History  of  St.  Edmund's  gave  an  unanimous  call  to  the  Rev.  Mr.  Lawson,  Galashiels.  Bury,  proves  with  what  justice  he  bears  the  distinction  of  F.S.  A.:  Mr.  Robert  Gee,  B.  A.  of  Queen's  college,  is  elected  a  Fels  •  low  of  Catharine  hall.  while  he  has  recently  circulated  proposals  for  publishing,  under  .The  Rev.  John  James,  M.  A.  Fellow  of  St.  John's  college.  the  patronage  of  the  East  of  Chichester,  '  Memoirs  of  Public  Oxford,  is  elected  Grammar  Master  of  the  Free  Schools  at  Charities:  an  Historical  Illustration  of  the  origin,  progress,and  Chigwell,  in  Essex,  void  by  the  tesignation  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  •  present  state  of  the  Charitable  Institutions  in  and  around  the  Freeman.  Cities  of  London  and  Westminster;  with  Historical  Anecdotes  The  Rev.  John  Salter  is  instituted  to  the  Vicarage  ofStralton,  St.  Margaret,  Wilts.  illustrative  of  their  beneficial  effects,  and  Biographical  Notices  The  Rev.  R.  Ruch  Matthews,  M.  B.  has  been  instituted  to  of  the  Founders,  most  active  Supporters,  and  chief  Benefactors  the  Vicarage  of  Westhall,  in  Suffolk,  on  the  presentation  of  the  of  the  several  Institutions?'  He  is  perfectly  qualified  for  this  Dean  and  Chapter  of  Norwich.  laborious,  but,  if  fully  accomplished,  useful  and  meritorious  The  Duke  of  Clarence  has  appointed  the  Rev.  Peter  Wood,  undertaking.  A.B.  of  Oriel  College,  Oxford.,  to  be  one  of  his  It.o3ia  1;  igh-;  mess's  domestic  Chaplains.  The  whole  task  of  education  at  the  ualversity,  public  1  -  .  --  ichools,  private  families,  and  in  foreign  travels  devolves  upon  THE  THEATRE.  the  clergy.  A  great  part  of  the  literature  of  t  heir STYLE=superscript  coustr STYLE=superscript  y  .....  adds  the  Edinburgh  Reviewer  whom  I  have  alr  e STYLE=superscript  a  d STYLE=superscript  y  q  uoted, STYLE=superscript  —.OO,  fl  t  4  Ar-.IIJRKET.  in  their  May  there  never  be  wanting  clergymen  to  On  Wednesday  night,  for  the  first  time  we  believe  this  se:soo  , STYLE=superscript  undertake  the  education  of  our  youth  ;  and  may  the  whole  task  the  Little  Theatre,  Haymarket,  overflowed  with  company.  The  4.,  ~.  .2  , STYLE=superscript  of  continue  for  ever  66 STYLE=superscript  in  their  Lamentable STYLE=superscript  powerful  magne  t STYLE=superscript  that STYLE=superscript  a•tracted STYLE=superscript  such STYLE=superscript  crowds STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  that STYLE=superscript  lately STYLE=superscript  nearly STYLE=superscript  *lll  be  the  state  of  morals  mow  us,  if  ever  any  essential  portion  deserted  house  , STYLE=superscript  was  time STYLE=superscript  con STYLE=superscript  j  unction STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  Mrs. STYLE=superscript  Siddons  with  Hr.  1  et  of  the  task  of  is  transferred  from  the  clergy  of  our  Young's  genius  in  .  Shakespear's  tragedy  a  i  i  sf  Jlt  r  tebeth.  :F  a  t  let:  I,';:  cdleoce  of  Mrs.  Siddons  as  the  ret  .  I  (.a  n  y  M  ::  Country.  '.,  is  too  well  known  to  require  an.  further  illustration,  we  wi.ll  As  to  the  literature  of  their  it  is  another  SWIM  '  therefore  confine  our  remarks  to  the  performance  of  Mr.  Young,  of  satisfaction  to  me  when  lam  told  that  great  of  who,  for  the  fast  time,  appeared  is  the  ardoous  character  of  ~  this  also  in  the  of  ecclesiastics.  In  what  other  Macitstit•  .l'  Genius  is  rather  checked  than  assisted  by  the  exfunple  of  its  could  it  be  so  eligibly  placed  ?  I  wish,  let  me  boldly  I  )redeeessors.  For  instead  of  bending  all  its  faculties  up  till  one  confess  .it,  that  even  more  of  our  lit  erature STYLE=superscript  was STYLE=superscript  under STYLE=superscript  the  3114te  point,  the  acquiring  superior  excellence,  it  is  compelled  i  superintendence  of  our  clergy.  It  is  pleasing,  it  is  seriously  to.  divide  its  attention  and  weaken  its  puwers,  by  continual  g  ratifying  to  me,  when,  as  in  the  instance  of  the  Rev.  Mr.  Yates,  etforts  to  avoid  imitation.  But  nom  only  its  e  x  ert  i  oils  are  cramped;  I  perceive  clergymen  commendably  interested  in  the  cultivation  its  fame  suffers  ma  small  diminution  of  its  lustre,  through  the  in-  of  literature,  pue  demonstrating,  by  the  productions  of  the  ustice  .  i  of  the  public  opinion.  w  hick  w  rottgl  believes  that  all  the  merit  it  possesses  s  due  to  the  study  it  has  made  of  the  works  of  study,  that  their  mental  ardour  does  n  ot STYLE=superscript  eva STYLE=superscript  p  orate STYLE=superscript  in STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  p  ul STYLE=superscript  p  it STYLE=superscript  ;  othei  Q.  Mr.  Y  (ping  has  the  misfortune  or  belonging  to  the  cla,d  but  that,  familiatising  themselves  oi  Intellectual  and  laudable  of  performers  of  true  genius,  and  is  therefore  exposed  to  all  the  exertion,  they  carry  with  them,  into  every  department  of  useful-  diitdvantages  which  we  have  meationed.  Contc  .  ioils  of  t  d  h  .  e  ness,  those  qttalifitations  which,  without  improperly  interfer-  di  ffi  culties  of  hissithation.  and  .  di  veting  .  lairselves  h  o  i  t  i  a  hi  p  i,h  re  e  j  s  u  ir  t-  we  witnessed  his  delne.ation  of  Alutoqh  t.%  t  e  ~  ire  . STYLE=superscript  ,  with  their  legitimate  and  higher  pursuits,  render  them  base-  I  c STYLE=superscript  ti  es STYLE=superscript  siiction.  He  e‘  identl  v  followed  tin!  inspirations  of  his  feelings  idol  and  eligible  characters  in  human  society.  '  audjudgment,andscoroed  imitation.  ale  vviseli  l  suffere  l  d  t  .  he  embi-  Of  this  order  of  excellence  is  Mr.  Yates.  Estimable  as  a  •  {ions  ..  e  d  isposit  io  a  of  i  his  he  hero  S  h  u  nt  i  i  I  n  d  t  i  o  nn  hrst  ii  t  i  . STYLE=superscript  o  t  i  i  i  ie  i  c  ia  x  t  p  o  r  n  es  y  t  on  n  of  his  h  prod  uction  o  f  p  oet  ,  Preacher,  and  approved  as  a  scholar,  he  is  also  extensively  re-  countenance  when  discontented  with  the  honours  lavished  upon  /  ipected,  as  a  man;  aad  while  he  is  applauded  for  his  public  him,  and  which  ought  to  have  assuaged  his  tairst  for  greattness,  talentsaod  attainments,  be  is,  if  possible,  still  more  valued  for  he  impatiently  o  itnesta.i  the  elevation  of  the  King's  own  *mi  l  :  those  private  virtues  which  most  essentially  conduce  to  the  sum  tTshsoislLialidiqvu,ywwashdeenlidveepread%in.igthtaollatuhneou..:ciredDeinienr7:l;virapvi,:srsinnst  ts,  Of  general  happiness.  '  is  g  ..„  I  Jo*.  14,  /SOO,  Oxalates.  et  wan  teriirnally  grand  ,  and  o  nl  y  at  r.s  couelusaie  iin.tate"
