text
"Slit  JOHN  MOOLtE.  The  Public  are  naturally  anxious  to  know  as  many  particular  as  possible  respecting  those  distingnisteed  characteks  which  claim  their  attention,  and  the  lamented  fall  of  this  eminent  Cetteral  must  eicite  a  more  than  usual  interest  with  regard  to  his  military  career.  Sir  J.  Moore,  as  we  have  already  stated,  was  born  at  Glasgow,  and  was  the  sou  of  Dr.  Moore.,  then  ei  physician  in  that  city  ;  hut  afterwards  known  to  the  world  by  numerous  works  of  Literature,  - STYLE=superscript  which  rank  him  high  as  a  just  and  philosophical  observer  of  human  life  and  manners  . STYLE=superscript  ,  and  an  elegant  and  pleasing  writer.  Dr.  Moore  travelled  with  the  late  Doe  of  Hamilton  an  the  Continent;  and  on  this  occasion  be  was  accompanied  by  - STYLE=superscript  1(  rds  Sir  J  h'  hail  thus  an  excellent  op op  P11_TB00005 liis  son,  afterwards  Sir  J.  Moore,  w  tio  had  thus  an  excellent  op-  1  .:  portunity  of  finishing  his  education,  and  acquiring  a  facili  t STYLE=superscript  y  in  not,  he  said,  '  I;eine:r.ber  me  to  him—  1  :  the  modern  languages.  General  Moore  entered  th  e STYLE=superscript  ser  vice STYLE=superscript  eariv  ~  ,  1  f  ee  l  myse  lf  so  strong,  I  feat  I  shall  be  long  dying;  --- STYLE=superscript  I  ..„  .  -  .  in  life,  and  as  he  soon  displziyed  his  Militays  talents,  his  'rise  was  ant  in  great  pail.'  I  '-1  .  rapid.  In  1801  he  was  appointed  Colonel  of  the  52.il  regiment,  then  thauLed  the  Doctors  for  their  attention.  ',)  and  rose  'to  the  rank  of  Major-General  in  180.2.  Coisica  Ca  ptai  (I-  Percy  and  s  tanlio  pe  came  into  the  room—lie  s  p  o  k  e  .II  the  first  scene  in  which  he  had  opnGrt  unity  of  shewing  his  kindly  to  both,  and  asked  Vevey  if  all  his  A  ides-de  s  Uautp  wen..  i  military  talents;  L STYLE=superscript  in  d STYLE=superscript  here STYLE=superscript  wn  rtliitly  occasions  he  displayed  his  we  ll—he  pressed  my  hand  close  to  his  body  in  a  few  minutes  ,4.  I  personal  bravery  and  good  conduct.  Ile  was  next  sent  out  to  died  without  a  strog4le.,  !  the  Wesa  Indies,  in  1795,  under  Sir  Ralph  Abercrombie,  where,  said  to  nie,  while  the  Surgeons  were  examining  his  by  his  distinguished  condo:a,•  he  acquired  the  full  confidence  of  wound-7'  I'OU  KNoW  I  OAvi;  ILWAICSWISDED  TO  0117  Vti  is  that  great  General,  who  selected  Sir  .1•  Moore  to  accompany  him  .'—:V,  far  as  1  can  laced  re  in  collec  this  is  every  thing  lie  said  •  -  sl;  •  in  his  expedition  to  Holland,  in  lifs9,  where  he  was  slightly  except  asking  to  be  paoea  t, STYLE=superscript  sier  posture  .  .  .  1  .. STYLE=superscript  wounded.  In  the  expedition  to  Egypt  , STYLE=superscript  howev  er, STYLE=superscript  he STYLE=superscript  had STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  more STYLE=superscript  ii=iiiiiiiiiwaiw•;iwi  •  -  ,  ample  field  for  establishing  his  character  as  an  excellent  Officer.  'EXTRAORDINARY  GAZ  ETT  E.  On  that  occasion.  he  commanded  at  the  disembarkation  of  the  --iona—  foreesi  and  his  conduct  was  deemed  a  master-oiece  of  general  .  .  ship,  Of  schielt  cven  Bonaparte  himself  is  said  to  have  declared  D  o  wning  -Street,  Jan.  24,  1  809 STYLE=superscript  .  •  that  it  was  worthy  of  the  ablest  General  that  ever  lived.  At  The  H  a  n.  Cu  pt.  Hope  arrived  late  last  night  with  a  dispatch  .  .  •  the  hattle  of  Alexandria,  General  Moore  was  wounded,  when  j  from  Lieut.-General  sir  David  I3aird,  to  Lord  Viscount  Castle-  leading  on  the  reserve  with  his  usual  gallantry  ;  amid  on  his  re-  reagh,  one  of  h  i STYLE=superscript  s  Ma STYLE=superscript  j  est STYLE=superscript  y  's STYLE=superscript  p  rinci STYLE=superscript  p  al STYLE=superscript  Secretaries STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  State, STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  ,  .  turn,  his  Majesty  conferred  owl  him  the  honour  of  Knight-,  which  the  following  is  a  copy.  .  .  '  hood,  and  the  Order  of  the  Bath.  Sir  J. STYLE=superscript  Moore STYLE=superscript  was STYLE=superscript  in STYLE=superscript  active STYLE=superscript  His  Majesty's  Ship  Vill  lBo9e  de  Paris,  4.ervice  during  almost  the  whole  of  the  p  resent STYLE=superscript  war. STYLE=superscript  He STYLE=superscript  coin- STYLE=superscript  MY STYLE=superscript  Lon STYLE=superscript  n. STYLE=superscript  at  St-a,  Jan.  18,  .  mantled  at  Shornrlill',  in  Kent,  and  afterwards  succeeded  General  By  the  much  lamented  death  of  Lieutenant-Gcneral  Sir  John  Fox  in  the  command  of  the  troops  at  Sicily.  The  expedition  I  Moore,  who  fell  in  action  with  the  enemy  on  the  16th  inst.  it  to  Sweden,  in  which  he  commanded,  had  not  that  satisfactory  I  has  become  my  duty  to  inform  your  Lordship,  that  the  French  result  which  was  to  he  wished:  but  Ministers  have  UnifortnlY  army  attacked  the  British  *coatis  in  the  position  they  occupied  declared,  that  this  proceeded  from  no  misconduct  whatever  on STYLE=superscript  in  front  of  Coranna,  at  about  two  o'clock  in  the  afternoon  of  i  his  part.  The  transactions  of  the  army  in  Spain  arc  too  recent  that  day.  •  '  to  call  for  any  recapitulation  ;he  fell  most  gloriously  at  the  A  severe  wound,  which  compelled  me  to  quit  the  field  a  short  post  of  danger,  and  in  animating  his  troops  to  those  exertions,  :  time  previous  to  the  fall  of  Sir  Join)  Moore,  obliges  me  to  j  re-  by  which  a  ‘omplete  repulse  of  tue  enemy,  and  the  safe  embarka.  i STYLE=superscript  fer  your  Lurd4hip  fur  the  particulars  of  the  action,  wl)ich  was"
