text
"TH4  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  1..Y3  TO  OUR  SUBSCRIBERS  AND  THE  PUBLIC.  The  Proprietors  have  beep  informed,  that  some  gross  im impositions  positions impositions  have  been  practised  on  the  Readers  of  Tilt;  N  lIONA  L  REGMER  ;—such  as  exhorbitant  and  improper  charges  having  peep  demanded  for  the  Portraits  and  Monument  which  have  been  issued  with  the  Paper  to  all  the  Newsmen  and  to  the  Public;  and  that  some  Per:olls  extended  their  Imposition  so  far  as  to  litter  the  Price  of  the  Paper  4  all  which  abuses  the  Pro Proprietors  prietors Proprietors  had  not  the  least  knowledge  of  until  the  intimation  w  as  given  through  a  Subscriber.  As  it  is  the  intention  of  the  Propri Propriietors  ietors Propriietors  to  distribute  GR  &amp;T  IS  all  the  Portraits  of  the  Ircle  Beaparhes  of  the  Royal  Family,  &amp;e.  they  would  be  glad  to  be  advised  of  the  liairtes  of  the  Perstins  who  have  practised  such  Impositions,  so  that  proper  measures  may  be  adopted  to  prevent  a  recurrence  of  such  misconduct.  A  Portrait  of  his  Royal  !Ugliness  the  DUKE.  OF  KENT,  engraved  by  Scary  Eti,  from  a  Picture  in  the  possei:•ion  of  the  Princeis  Amelia,  will  he  delivered  art.4rts  on  Sunday,  April  23.  The  Portrait  of  the  DUKE  OF  GLARE  - STYLE=superscript  4  CI;  will  be  given  in  the  course  of  the  ensuing  Month.  To  secure  early  and  Fine  'lmpressions  of  the  Plates,  imine imineiate  iate imineiate  Orders  should  be  sent  to  the  Office,  No.  11,  Catherine Catherinestreet,  street, Catherinestreet,  Strand,  or  given  to  the  Newsmen,  the  Clerks  of  the  Roads.  and  Booksellers,  throughout  the  United  Kingdocu.  It  will  be  seen  hy  the  Paper  of  thi;  day,  that  a  rowsicizrable  improvement  Ivpheen  made  by  the  insertion  of  I, STYLE=superscript  loyd's  List  and  the  Loutlop  114rkets,  which  will  he,  for  the  future,  regularly  iwerted.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  Lotlban,  SUNDAY,  APRIL  ft,  180  a.  frOLMCd;.  EVENTS  OF  THE  WEEK.  it  is  confidentll•  stated  that  the  French  army  in  Gallicia*  ommanded  by  Sonit,  is  retreating  from  that  province.  It  is  supposed,  that  'their  whole  force,  in  the  North  of  Spain,  will  take  a  defensive  position  in  C4s.tille  •  and  that  no  offensive  operations  will  be  undertaken,  unti  l  event  of  the  Austrian  war  be  decided.  This  statement  completely  refutes  the  account,  contained  in  the  French  Papers,  of  a  s;glial  defeat  sustained  by  the  Marquis  de  Humana,  with  the  loss  of  5000  men  left  dead  on  the  field.  Letters  from  the  head-quarters  of  the  Marquis  prove  that  his  army  was  120  miles  from  op  scene  w  here  the  action  is  said  to  have  taken  place.  iloN,-MArtc“  Don  Pedro  Zulaiber  has  this  moment  received  a  letter  from  his  brother,  the  ()thee'  . STYLE=superscript  in  Oviedo,  inform informhim  him informhim  that  last  night  arrived  there  a  captain  of  14  Rom:ma's  :rrnv,  a  division  of  which  would  halt  last  night  in  Congas  de  V.  0.4,  another  of  18,6  C(  men  at  Villafranea  del  Ilierro,  and  the  Tost  of  said  army  was  left  at  Lugo,  or  near  it,  where  it  had  in intcreepted  tcreepted intcreepted  the  whole  plunder  of  Gallicia,  which  the  enemy  was  Tetiring  with.  'The  Tetreat  of  the  !  French  from  that  province  pin*  •  Every  communication,  lately  received  from  Spain,  whe whether  ther whether  of  a  private,  'or  a  public,  nature  •has  a  tendency  to  rekindle  the  hopes  which  the  first  exertions  of  that  gallant  peopie  so  generally  diffused  .  They  ner?  4tinned  by  their  1  pf.  reverses,  which  were  al  severe  as  .unexpected  ;  and  the  treachery  of  Sfylflr  of  their  leader  4,,  together  with  the  meapanity  and  cowardice  of  others,  .  snapped  the  great  c  h  pin  of  union,  which  could  alone  give  thent  arty  eertr4intv  reOitlg  ,tne  accumulating  forctt•of  ttie,:  4  nvatiPrs.  .!  Vie  prldiotad,  sitoorne  rnonthv  ago,  when  every  week  terrified  S6itlC  fres4  at,:ouht  of  the  dis:Wery  6,1  Instairked,  7  ;  APRILS.  that  though  their  armies  might  be  dispersed,  their  provin provinces  ces provinces  overrun,  and  their  cities  razed  to  the  „e-round,  their  will  would  remain  inyincible,  and  their  hatred  of  the  inva invaders  ders invaders  unsubdued.  We  have  not  been  mistaken—for  a  people,  who  are  unanimous  in  their  resistance  and  hatred  to  an  enemy,  imbibe,  in  proportion  to  their  reverses,  new  sentiments  of  abhorrence  ;  and  to  be  subdued,  they  must  be,  in  a  great  *  measure,  exterminated.  What  appeared,  at  first  sight  a  calamity,  afforded.  the  only  prospect  of  success  ;—deprived  of  the  presence  and  councils  of  their  rulers  they  were  forced  to  have  recourse  to  them-  , STYLE=superscript  selves;  so  that  every  member  in  the  community  wa  bronght  to  co-operate  in  a  cause,  which  then  became  truly trulynational.  national. trulynational.  Thus  a  community  less  addicted  to  war,  aud  with  more  circumscribed  resources  than  any  other  g  r STYLE=superscript  eat  state  on  the  continent,  had  opposed  an  effectual  resisl  lance,  hail,  in  fact,  baffled  the.  intrigues  and  the  utmost  exertions  of  a  man,  who,  with  the  effect  and  rapidity  of  the  whirlwind,  dissipated  the  armies  and  subdued  the  pro-'  vinces  of  Austria  and  Prussia,--two  great  military  states,  supported  by  the  resources  of  the  Russian  empire.  These  countries  fell  an  easy  prey,  because  the  inhabitants  looked'  up  to  the  wisdom  and  energy  of  their  toverninents,  to  or.;  divary  expedients  in  a  case  of  extraordinary  emergency  —when  these  were  found  ineffectual,  they  had  no  other  resource  in  reserve  ;.  and  they  submitted,  to  *ilent'  despon despondency,  dency, despondency,  to  a  calamity,  which  their  vaunted  establishments,  formerly  their  pride  and  security,  bad  not  been  able  to  avert.  The  Spaniards,  whose  military  force  was  completely  in incompetent  competent incompetent  for  their  defence,  a  considerable  part  of  which,  through  the  imbecility  of  their  former  government  , STYLE=superscript  h  a STYLE=superscript  d  •  been  detached  to  promote  the  views  of  the  enemy,  were  forced  to  adopt  other  expedients  to  repel  the  invasion.  This  resolution  and  this  necessity  have  enabled  them  to  resist  the  utmost  pressure  of  the  enemy's  strength.  Their  preparations  have`  not  - STYLE=superscript  abated,  their  confidence  in  the  Ohl.  ?  mate  success  of  their  exertions  has  increased,  instead  of  having  diminished  ;  and,  from  one  extremity  of  the  Penin-:  sula  to  the  other,  the  natives  are  making  the  most  virroutt  preparations  to  secure  this  desirable  object:  .•  .  •  We  have  sum  a  letter  from  Alicaut,  though  not  of  a  very  recent  dale  (the  15th  of  Feb.)  which  increases  its  interest;  it  gives  the  most  satisfactory  account  ..of  the  vigorous  preparations  made  by  that  city,  in'  common•with  every  city  and  town  in  the  south.  EVecy  man,  capable'  of  bearing  arms,  was  constantly  exercising  himself  in  the  use  of  them.  The  citizens  had  already  formed  a  well-org  anised  corps  of  3000  men,  which,  were  it  •not  for  a  defi  ciency  of  arms,  would  have  been  much  more  numerous.  They  look  anx anxiously  iously anxiously  for  a  supply  , STYLE=superscript  from  this  country  ;  •  and  'as  plaint  has  been  frequently  repeated,  as  it  has  been  - STYLE=superscript  heard  for  these  three  months  past,  it  is  most  unaccountable  that  preparations  had  not  been  sooner  Made  Ily•our  Goverliment  to  Comply  with  so  ~  : STYLE=superscript  msonable  a  demand.  •  The  accounts  from  Valencia  contain  intelligence  equally  satisfactory  of  the  preparations  made  in  that  city.  The  spirit  of  the  citizens  is  as  unabated  as  when  they  forced  Moneey  to  fly  precipitately  from  their  walls.  They  seem  determined  to  imitate  the  glorious  example  given  by  the  Saragossans.  When  we  look  to  the  North,  we  find  the  same  motives  of  hope  and  encouragement.  The  Asturians  have  already  quitted  their  mountains,  and  have  had  .some  successful  rect.  !  counters  with  the  enemy.  The  Gallicians  are  imitating;  the  general  example,  and  have  cut  to  pieces  several  small  detachments  of  their  invaders.  Among  the  latter  a  most  malignant  fever  is  said  to  make  dreadful  ravages  ;  and  so  very  far  from  being  able  to  execute  their  threatened  inva invasion  sion invasion  of  Portugal,  they  are  almost  unequal  to  the  task  of  keeping'  possession  of  Gallieia.  On  the  frontiers  of  this  prob  ince,  It  on,v4  is  stationed  with  a  considerable  force  ready  to  take  aclvan'  of  •f  - STYLE=superscript  'able  occurrence  which  may  otter.  Th,  in  that  direction,  %chi,  P8_TB00015 Itage  of  any  favourable  o,ccurrence  le  Portuguese  have  also  a  large  Corps,  ich  is  daily  increasing  in  strength  and  •  P8_TB00016 V"
