text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  Colonel  Gordon.  He  next  called  the  attention  of  the  Gen Gentlemen  tlemen Gentlemen  to  the  mysterious  note  which  had  been  the  subject  of  such  lengthened  V STYLE=superscript  and  minute  discussion.  It  was,  however,  viewed,  in  whatever  way  considered,  that  kind  of  testimony  which,  in  a  court  of  law,  where  life,  liberty,  and  character  of  any  person  were  under  consideration,  would  be  treated  with  in indifference.  difference. indifference.  It  was,  in  reality,  no  ground  for  guiding  decision  in  a  court  of  justice.  The  note  was  then  read  by  the  Honourable  Member  :--  have  received  your  note.  Tonyn's  business  must  remain  as  it  is.  God  bless  He  asked  after  the  perusal  of  this  note,  whether  the  language  of  it  could  be  perverted  by  any  impartial  man  into  a  charge  of  undue  influence  against  his  Royal  Highness?  He  had  no  doubt  that  Gentlemen  would  recollect,  as  a  most  important  fact,  that  when  Captain  Sandon  received  that  note,  it  was  inclosed  in  an  envelope,  the  post:nark  of  which,  was  dated  five  days  after  the  promotion  of  Capt.  Tonyn.  The  only  remaining  charge  was  that  which  had  its  rise  in  the  case  of  Samuel  Carter.  Ile  sincerely  wished,  for  the  honour  and  feelings  of  the  House,  that  the  charge  bad  not  been  brought  forward.  The  young  man,  whose  pro pro;notion  ;notion pro;notion  from  a  low  situation,  had  been  so  strongly  in insisted  sisted insisted  upon  by  those  Gentlemen  who  had  considered  it  as  the  just  ground  of  accusation  against  his  Royal  High Highness,  ness, Highness,  was  not  the  offspring  of  base  and  unworthy  parents,  but  the  offipring  of  a  veteran  Officer  who  had  of  course  such  natural  interest  in  his  welfare,  as  to  recommend  him  for  ap appointment  pointment appointment  whenever  a  vacancy  might  present  itself.  It  appeared  that  the  recommendation  had  been  made  in  1801,  three  years  before  Mrs.  Clarke  was  acquainted  or  connected  with  his  Royal  Highness.  The  name  of  Samuel  Carter  was  entered  in  the  hooks  'carding  to  the  usual  routine  and  custom,  to  be  noticed  when whenrver  rver whenrver  a  vacancy  should  occur.  A  vacancy  had  long  afterwards  occurred,  and  the  young  man  was  appointed  at  the  express  re recommendation,  commendation, recommendation,  and  in  consequence  of  the  renewed  applications  of  his  friends.  His  Royal  Highness  would,  in  reality,  ap appear  pear appear  more  entitled  to  commendation  than  censure  and  rebuke.  Air.  Burton  here  entered  into  a  series  of  general  observations  on  the  education  received  by  the  Prince  of  Wales  and  the  Duke  of  which  he  conceived  would  he  found  to  be  a  very  con considerable  siderable considerable  extenuation  of  inattention  and  imprudence,  in  the  ma management  nagement management  of  their  financial  concerns.  He  nad  conversed  on  that  subject  go  far  back  as  thirty  years  ago,  with  the  Gentleman  who  bad  been  selected  to  instil  into  their  minds  theelements  and  rudi rudiments  ments rudiments  of  knowledge,  and  was  explicitly  informed  that  they  were  instructed  in  every  useful  and  relined  branch  of  knowledge,  but  the  mere  practical  art  of  turning  money  ro  their  profit.  Of  the  usual  means  of  converting  money  into  sources  of  their  own  bene benefit  fit benefit  they  were  kept  in  complete  ignorance.  The  practical  know knowledge  ledge knowledge  was  neither  suited  to  the  views  before  them,  nor  the  dig dignified  nified dignified  and  proud  feelings  of  the  country  to  which  they  belonged.  There  was  also  a  circumstance  of  peculiar  weight  in  favour  of  his  Royal  Highness's  innocence,  Levi  that  circumstance  was  so  satisfactory,  and  carried  %vitt,  it  suc:i  impressive  conviction,  as  to  defy  the  most  minute  scrutiny,  and  to  silence  ever'  doubt.  alluded  to  the  line  of  couditet  pursued  by  his  Roval  High-  Less  is  emp;o)ing  r.  Lowten,  to  take  every  possible  pains  of  tam  i  n  io  g  into  the  system  of  living  adopted  by  Mrs.  Clarke.  Exclusively  of  the  deprivations  under  which  he  laboured  (Mr.  urtGO  has  been  long  deprived  of  sight),  he  was  rapidly  going  down  the  hill  of  life,  and  looked  to  the  other  side  of  the  grave.  In  ;it  lug  his  opinion  of  the  charges  he  could  conscientiously  eeci,ltc.  that  his  judgment  was  solely  guided  by  the  pure  princi principles  ples principles  of  jugice,  and  was  strictly  conformable  to  the  impression  which  had  been  made  upon  his  mind  by  the  testitnony  before  the  touse.  Mr.  CCIlw  EN  wag  averse  to  members  making  a  profession  of  %he  purity  of  their  motives,  which  was  a  practice  that  had  crept  in  or  late  years,  and  was  unknown  in  , STYLE=superscript  the  better  days  of  the  . STYLE=superscript  ..Howe  of  Commons.  He  would  make  no  profession  of  the  purity  a  his  motives,  but  1:e  would  state,  as  a  plain  man,  the  reasons  which  would  induce  him  to  give  his  vote  contrary  to  the  Hon.  Gentleman  who  spoke  before  him,  The  lion.  Member  then  proceeded  to  recapitulaie  various  parts  of  the  evidence,  and  con confended,  fended, confended,  that  if  absolute  corruption  had  not  been  proved  against  puke  of  York,  lie  hail  been  convicted  of  orgligent  remiss remiss%msg.  %msg. remiss%msg.  and  therefore  was  unfit  to  ike  continsted  in  L!ie  command  of  ttl'e  army.  The  ;:ft  tycw,ort  of  the  Excirtr.Qtirtt  rose  nearly  at  the  bouts  of  ;2  o'clock.  He  said,  that  although  he  %I:kited  to  deliver  aleskentiments  at  an  early  hour,  he  felt  it  due  to  the  years,  the  ,txperiencv,  arid  the  acknowledged  worth  of  the  lion.  Member  sikoice  last  but  et:e  in  the  debate  (Mr,  Liurto::),  to  give  way  MARCH  19.  and  repress  his  desire.  The  speech  delivered  by  that  Gentle Gentleman  man Gentleman  was  in  every  point  of  view  as  able,  important,  and  im impressive  pressive impressive  as  any  one  ever  addressed  in  his  recollection  to  that  House.  It  was  his  intention  to  propose,  when  the  debate  was  resumed,  as  a  resolution,  Ist,  That  charges  having  been  exhibited  against  his  Royal  Highness  thy;  Duke  of  York,  of  corruption  is  the  disposal  of  army  promotions,  &amp;c.  or  corrupt  connivance  in  the  disposal  thereof,  it  is  the  bounden  duty  of  the  House  to  pronounce  a  decided  judgment  upon  those  charges.  That,  after  an  attentive  examination  of  s  itliest•es,  and  a  rigor rigorous  ous rigorous  investigation  of  documents,  there  appeared  to  the  House  no  ground  to  suspect  his  Royal  Highness  to  be  guilty  of  any  per personal  sonal personal  corruption,  or  any  personal  connivance  in  the  abuses  which  had  been  proved  to  exist  in  other  quarters.  If  these  resolutions  were  carried,  the  Right  Hon.  Oentleman  said,  he  should  then  move  an  Address  to  his  Majesty,  carrying  to  the  foot  of  the  throne  the  resolution  of  acquittal.  That  the  House  of  Commoaq,  in  consequence  of  serious  charg  es  having  been  made  against  his  Royal  Highness  the  Command  er  in  Chief,  had  gone  into  a  mi minute  nute minute  investigation  of  those  charges  and  most  distinctly  acquitted  his  Royal  Highness  of  all  knowledge  of,  or  participation  in,  any  abuses  of  military  patronage.  To  express  to  his  Majesty  the  satisfaction  they  had  derived  from  the  many  useful  regulations  which  had  been  carried  into  effect  under  the  auspices  of  the  Duke  of  York  in  the  Commander  in  Chief's  o.:tice,  and-the  high  state  of  discipline  to  which  he  had  raised  the  army  ;  but  that'at  •  the  same  time,  they  could  not  but  learn  with  concern,  that  a  connection  had  ever  been  Carried  on,  which  had  exposed  his  Royal  Highness  to  so  much  suspicion  and  obloquy,  and  that  they  learnt  with  the  sincerest  pleasure,  that  his  Royal  Highness  had  dissolved  it,  and  was  resolved  for  the  future  to  imitate  that  bright  example  of  virtue  which  his  Majesty  so  long  had  set  to  all  ranks  •of  his  people.  On  the  Motion  of  Mr.  Whitbread,  the  debate  was  then  post postponed.  poned. postponed.  and  the  Ilouse  adjourned  at  half.past  three  o'clock.  Thursda,y,  March  S.  The  Indemnity  Bill  was  read  a  third  time  and  passed.  On  the  motion  of  the  Lord  Advocate  for  Scotland,  the  Chtld  •  Murder  Prevention  Bill  was  read  a  third  time  and  passed."
