text
"MIDDLESEX  SESSIONS.  HICKS'S  HALL;CLERKENWELL,WEDNESDAV,JAN.H.  11  II  PERJUR.  V  . STYLE=superscript  .-TIFIE  KING  V.  BI7RDON.  I  I  The  defendant  was  indicted  for  wilful  and  corrupt  perjury,  li  arising  out  of  a  cause  in  the  Common  Pleas,  under  the  follow-  I  ing  circumstances.  The  defendant  was  a  money-lender,  and  had  agreed  with  Browning,  late  High  Bailiff'  of  Westmin  ster, STYLE=superscript  for STYLE=superscript  I STYLE=superscript  the  purchase  of  an  annuity  of  4001 STYLE=superscript  .  per  annum  , STYLE=superscript  to  be  secured STYLE=superscript  on  I  Browning's  place  of  High  Bailiff',  and  his  other  property.  The  sum  stated  as  the  consideration STYLE=superscript  in  the  memoria  l STYLE=superscript  was STYLE=superscript  2274/.  I  Browning  afterwards  applied  to  the  Common  Pleas  to  set  aside  !  the  annuity,  on  the  grounds  that  it  did  not  set  out  the  true  con consideration  sideration consideration  paid  for  the  same.  That  he  had  agreed  to  give  six  Nears  purchase  for  it,  viz.  240  D/.  ;  but  that  Burdon  kept  back  i  ll  MT.  as  insurance,  and  2  61 STYLE=superscript  .  for  his  expellees  ;  and  that  instead  of  1  the  annuity  being  for  Burdon's  life  only,  as  agreed,  he  had  in inserted  serted inserted  another  life,  namely,  the  additional  life  of  his  niece.  Mr.  Burdon,  in  his  answer  to  this  affidavit,  directly  denied  all  the  allegations,  namely,  that  he  had  not  kept  back  any  money  on  the  grounds  alledged  ;  that  Browning  had  made  no  objection  to  the  life  of  Miss  Burdon  being  inserted,  and  that  the  true  con consideration  sideration consideration  was  only  22761.  as  inserted  in  the  memorial.  For  this  affidavit  he  was  now  indicted,  and  those  contradictions  as assigned  signed assigned  as  perjuries.  To  support  the  case  of  the  prosecutor,  himself  and  two  other  persons,  a  Mr.  Gideon  Fly,  and  a  Mr.  Monkton  Hale,  swore  distinctly  to  the  facts  as  stated  for  the  defendant.—Mr.  Serjeant  Shepherd  made  a  most  able  defence,  and  insisted,  that  Mr.  Browning  came  to  swear  away  his  liabi liability  lity liability  to  pay  the  annuity,  and  that  the  other  witnesses  ought  not  to  be  credited.  lie  then  called  an  eminent  Conveyanur,  who  proved  that  he  had  been  consulted  on  Browning's  securities,  and  he  advised  that  they  were  not  valid  ;  and  Mr.  Saul,  the  Attor Attorney,  ney, Attorney,  denied  the  statement  as  sworn  to  by  the  prosecutor  and  his  witnesses.  Several  persons  of  respectability  also  spoke  to  the  rood  character  of  the  defendant.  The  case  lasted  the  whole  day,  and  at  a  late  hour  the  Jury  foun4  the  defendant—Guilty.  SATURDAY,  JAN.  14.  Mr.  Andrews,  of  whose  traits  of  swindling  the  public  heard  a  good  deal  of  a  twelvemonth  ago,  moved  the  Court  during  the  week  for  judgment,  and  he  was  yesterday  brought  up.  The  Chairman  after  some  forcible  remarks  on  the  prisoner's  conduct,  observed,  that  a  multiplicity  of  petitions  had  been  presented  to  him  on  the  prisoner's  behalf,  but  he  had  returned  them  unopened,  as  the  case  was  too  flagrant  for  his  interferene.  The  long  con confinement  finement confinement  of  the  prisoner  had  been  the  only  thing  taken  into  con consideration  sideration consideration  by  the  Bench,  and  in  consequence  of  that  imprison imprisonment,  ment, imprisonment,  ti►e  Court  sentenced  the  prisoner  to  two  months  further  con confiuc►nent  fiuc►nent confiuc►nent  ita  Ncw•gate."
