text
"POLITICAL  EVENTS  OP  THE  WEEK.  Friday  a  Messenger  arrived  from  Gottenburgh  with  dispatches  from  Stockholm.  The  contents  hale  not  trans transpired  pired transpired  ;  but  one  fact  is  stated  on  the  ii:sisencer's  authority,  which  is  of  importance,  at  least  as  indicating  the  state  of  the  public  mind  at  St.  Petersburgh.  The  character  of  the  Grand  Duke  CONSTANTINE,  and  the  estimation  in  which  he  is  held  by  the  better  order  of  the  Russian  people,  are  well  known.  His  low  habits  of  hie,  and  coarse  vices,  have  long  rendered  hint  offensive  to  the  higher  classes  of  the  inhabitants  of  St.  Vctersburgh.  The  disgust  which  has  been  felt  at  his  conduct  has  at  length  oc occasioned  casioned occasioned  an  attempt  upon  his  lite.  The  accounts  are  not  exactly  consistent  concerning  the  mode  of  the  attack.--  tonne  say  that  the  Duke  was  shot  at,  and  that  the  ball  passed  over  his  head,  and  killed  the  Aide-de-Camp.  Others  pretend  that  a  plot  was  formed  to  kill  him  in  his  bed,  and  that  his  room  being  mistaken,  his  Aide-de-Camp  was  slain  in  his  place  ;  but  all  accounts  agree  that  the  Aide-de-Cainp  lost  his  life  contrary  to  the  intention  of  the  conspirators.  In  consequence  of  this  attempt,  the  EMPEROR,  it  is  added,  offered  a  reward  of  200,000  rubles,  on  the  discovery  of  the  offender.  This  was  announced  by  placards  on  the  walls  of  the  city.  The  following  day  an  advertisement  was  posted  about  the  streets,  offering  400,000  roubles  to  any  one  who  should  assassinate  CONSTANTINE..  The  letters  from  Gottenburgh  announce  the  loss  of  two  ships  of  war  in  the  Baltic  ;  one  of  them  is  reported  to  be  the  Salcette  frigate.  By  the  last  accounts  from  the  Salcette,  there  had  been  little  or  no  communication  between  that  vessel  and  the  shore.  We  know  not  whether  Government  has  any  direct  com communications  munications communications  with  the  Cabinet  of  Vienna;  but  we  arc  in inclined  clined inclined  to  believe  it  has,  and  ground  this  supposition  on  the  arrival  in  this  country,  sonic  months  ago,  of  the  confiden confidential  tial confidential  Secretary  of  M.  Vow  GENTZ.  The  latter  is  the  BURKE  of  the  Continent,—the  ardent  champion  of  former  rights  and  independence,  and  an  avowed  anti  intrepid  enemy  to  the  late  innovations.  Ills  talents  and  his  patriotism  have  been  always  placed  in  requisition  by  the  Courts  of  Vienna,  Berlin,  and  St.  Petersburgh,  whenever  they  attempted  to  resist  he  encroachments  of  France;  and  had  the  measures  he  proposed  been  fully  adopted,  and  his  counsels  implicitly  followed,  the  ancient  Germanic  Constitution  had  existed  to  this  day.  .Accounts  have  been  received  by  Goiernment  and  the  Spanish  Deputies  from  Spain.  Those  transmitted  to  the  Deputies  are  said  to  be  of  a  most  cheering  .  nature,  arid  are  dated  the  12th  inst.  The  first  ardent  spirit  of  patriot patriotism  ism patriotism  which  animated  the  Spaniards  to  resistance  hak  rekin rekindled,  dled, rekindled,  and  begins  to  bUrst  forth,  with  increased  energy,  in  Most  provinces  of  the  Peninsula.  The  inhabitants  of  the  capital,  so  far  from  being  compelled,  or  seduced  to  obedi obedience,  ence, obedience,  evince  an  increasing  .  hostdity  to  the  tyrant  and  his  abominable  agents.  Deprived  b  . STYLE=superscript  )  , STYLE=superscript  villainy,  and  the  basest  initrigues,  of  the  means  of  resistance  and  revenge,  common  between  nation  and  nation,  they  hive  resorted  to  the  last  Ortrernity,  the  mortifying,  desperate  expedient  fora  gener gener(Ali  (Ali gener(Ali  people,  that  of  assassinating  their  tyrants,  They  haie  been  forced  to  it  by  accumulated  wrongs  ,.  and  by  the  im imppteuce  ppteuce imppteuce  they  have  been  reduced,  thrcpgh  treachery  and  wily  policy,  to  meet  that  enemy  on  equal  terms  in  the  field.  The  women,  th,c  romantic  SPanish  .  women,  enthusiastic,  and  cowhi  ning  with  the  fincit  .  and  .  most  4cli 4clicate  cate 4clicate  tee  . STYLE=superscript  lolo,  the  .subtlety.  of  their  dim  h  yinirdqcd;  1u  tfiia  manner,  it  is  said,  I  of  rieTia  Otecizis,  P9_TB00011 !  the  late  innovations.  His  talents  and  net  patriotism  nave  been  always  placed  in  requisition  by  the  Courts  of  Vicuna,  Berlin  and  St.  Petersburgh,  whenever  they  attempted  to  I  resist  ihe  encroachments  of  France;  and  lid  the  measures  followed,  the  ancient  Germanic  Constitution  had  existed  to  questionable  the  French  troops.  They  are  said  to  express  the  loudest  cont.  Plaints  of  the  hardships  they  arc  incessantly  exposed  to  ;  anti  the  declarations  of  the  he  proposed  been  fully  adopted,  and  his  counsels  implicitly  prisoners  our  arm  •  made,  coincide  with  these  accounts.  We  have  it,  in  fact,from  the  most  ou-  authority,  that  the  French  soldiers  chew  the.  coincide  '  this  day.  most  decided  repugnance  to  fight  against  the  Spaniards;  i  ,  I  —.is—  and  though  they  affect  a  great  deal  of  contempt  for  the  mi!:  .Accopts  have  been  received  by  Goiernment  and  the  litary  character  of  that  nation,  they  condemn  the  iiii4atiable  . STYLE=superscript  Fpanish  Deputies  from  Spain.  Those  transmitted  to  the  ambition  of  their  chie  ft  ain  , STYLE=superscript  which  drags  them,  in STYLE=superscript  th STYLE=superscript  e.  mo STYLE=superscript  Deputies  are  said  to  be  of  a  most  cheering  .  nature,  and  inclement  season  of  the  year,  from  the  Vistula  to  the  P.liro.  i-  .  are  dated  the  12th  inst.  The  first  ardent  spirit  of  patriot-  They  complain  loudly  that,  after  all  the  battles  they  have.  ism  which  animated  the  Spaniards  to  resistance  hats  rekin-  fought,  and  the  harrassing  privations  they  have  submitted.  ••i  died,  and  begins  to  bUrst  forth,  with  increased  energy,  in  to,  no  respite  is  allowed  them;  and  they  see  before  them'  li  Most  provinces  of  the  Peninsula.  The  inhabitants  of  the  only  the  dreadful  prospect  of  consuming  their  lives  in  toils  ,  .  •  capital,  so  far  from  being  compelled,  or  seduced  to  obedi-  and  dangers,  without  remuneration  or  a  prospect  of  future  1  ence,  evince  an  increasing  .  hostdity  to  the  tyrant  and  his  tranquillity.  .  I  .  abominable  agents.  Deprived  by  villainy,  and  the  basest  The  tyrant  has  already  exhausted  every  ant  and  pretext,  .  .  initrignes,  of  the  means  of  resistance  and  rcienge,  common  which  could  work  upon  the  passions,  Vanity,  or  rapacity  between  nation  and  nation,  they  hive  resorted  to  the  last  of  his  .  troops.  The  conquest  of  England,  the  freedom  of  .  Oarernity,  the  mortifying,desperate  expedient  for  .  agener-  the  sea,  are  no*  too  stale,  too  remote  and  impracticable;  ..  pui  people  ,  that  of  assassinating  their  tyrants,  They  have  to  .  encourage  them  to  perseverance  and  patience.  As.  been  forced  to  it  b  y  accumulated  wrongs  ,  and  by  the  ina.  Icing  as,  ilise  hoes  were  held  out,  and  in  order  to  keep  through  ppteuce  they  have  been  reduced,  treachery  and  them  alve,  map  s  of  the  City  of  London  were  distrilinted•  ,  the  .  •  .  .  .  wily  polic,  to  meet  that  enem  on  equal  terms  in  h  among  the  Freuch  regiMents,  containing  a  most  accurate  field.  Th  e  women,  the  romant  ic  Siianish  women,  ardent,  .  dessription,  in  a  military  point  of  view,  of  s  everal  streets  cnthUsiastic,  and  combining  with  the  fin  est  and  most  . STYLE=superscript  deli-  and  qttarters  ;  and  as  a  stimulus  to  their  rapacity,  the  4*  rate  tecijnp,  ihe.sUhtlety..of  their  difnaie,.(fairejinideied;  I  BiUk,  the  India  House,  and  other  bOildings  of  that  de-  .  ill  liiii  mann*,  it  ri  said,  I  iiitilbn  of  triera  Oittazii,  '  iii4fidli.  'i  - STYLE=superscript  v  - STYLE=superscript  e  -- STYLE=superscript  re  . STYLE=superscript  p  — STYLE=superscript  tirrietilarli  Marked.  In  the  camp  :it  nimmi.....................mmii"
