text
"DESTRUCTION  OF  DRMY-LANE  THEATRE.  Without  the  most  remote  apprehension  of  conflagration,  and,  being  the  night  for  the  celebration  of  Oratorios,  at  the  exact  time  when  no  business  was  conducting  in  it,  Drury-Lane  Theatre  was  discovered  to  be  on  fire,  soon  after  eleven  o'clock  on  - STYLE=superscript  Friday  night.  Its  progress  was  as  astonishing  as  its  effects  w  ere  destructive.  .  _  _  .  Itwas  first  observed  at  the  end  next  to  Bridges-street,  where  a  number  of  carpenters  have  lately  been  employed  in  making  alteratiotis,  and  it  has  been  conjectured  that  a  light  had  unfor unfortunately  tunately unfortunately  been  left  there  by  the  workmen.  Wit  hin  a  few  minutes  after  it  was'  first  oh‘erved,  the  flames  burst  out  at  the  root,  and  encircled  the  statue  of  Apollo.  About  a  quarter  before  twelve,  the  statue,  - STYLE=superscript  and  part  of  the  ro6f  on  which  it  mood,  fell  in  with  a  .terrible  -crash.  There  •  was  a  reservoir  of  water  on  the  roof;  but-neither  ks  contents,  nor  all  the  engines  that  could  be  applied,  produced  any  effect  on  the  flames.  The-roof  fell  down  by  frag fragments,  ments, fragments,  lind  not  alt  at  .once,  as  is  common  in  buildings  destroyed  by  ire.  The  fiankes,first  broke  out  in  the  work-rooms  immediately  over  the  Lounge,  or  the  Cobby,  where  the  •audienee  resorted  for  refreshment.  Theengines,  although  instantly.  sent.for,  could  not  reachske  scene  of  destruction  in  time  to  give  effectual  11.-  sistance.  It  was  nearly  half  past  eleven  before  they  could  ad administer  minister administer  auy  aid,  and  at  that.  period  the  violence  of  the  flames  war  irresistible.  The  utust.serious  fews  wese  entertained  for  all  jhe  housgssitnated  in  Vinegar,-yard,  NVoiouru-court,  the  Ad Adjacent  jacent Adjacent  pmsages.  When  the  Are  was  rst  discovered  in  the  Interior  of  the  The,  *re,.  several  attempts  Were  made  to  extiuguisb  At  .  v.  bat  it  .bad  completely  identified  itself  with  the  wood,  and  in  Jess  than  five  ip,inuos  after  the,entraoce.of-btr.  Johmtoa,  the  Alachinist,  who;  ge.sidipi  close  to  the  ,I  Ouse,  was  one  of  the  first  Mutt  witgeged  ate  progress  .  a  the.  41,Nnes.  the  09,zp0,.  pit,  stage,  'Legg  Rygredxich  ,fircanfi  o.ivivoiwa  14.rmilffem.--kgrAft-  1444.•  :44410  a  P13_TB00017 Without  the  most  remote  apprehension  of  conflagration,  and,  I  which  the  House  had  been  ,just  informed  hall  befallen  a  Right  being  the  night  for  the  celebration  of  Oratorios,  at  the  exact  '  Hon.  Gent.  (Mr.  Sheridan)  for  whom  every  one  oni-t  feel.  .  ~  time  when  no  business  was  conducting  in  it,  Drury-Lane  lir.  Sheridan  in  a  low  tone  of  voice,  and  ev  Heat!  1  auxli  af-  I.  1.-  , STYLE=superscript  i.  Theatre  was  discovered  to  be  on  fire,  soon  after  eleven  o'clock  feeted,  s  aid  h  e  did  nut  think  th  e  m  i  s  f  o  rtune  w  ',Jel  l  h  a  d  h  a  pp  e  n  e  d  4  ,  on  - STYLE=superscript  Friday  night.  Its  progress  was  as  astonishing  as  its  effects  n  ere  to  himself  was  of  a  proper  nature  to  interrupt  the  proetenints  of  . STYLE=superscript  destructive.  the  !louse.  This  sentiment  was  with  ditliculty  acquiesced  in  It  . STYLE=superscript  was  first  observed  at  the  end  next  to  Bridges-street,  where  l  and  the  debate  proceeded.  .  .  a  number  of  carpenters  have  lately  been  employed  in  making  We  rejoice  to  state  that  the  fire  extended  no  further  than  the  alterations,  and  it  has  been  conjectured  that  a  light  had  ardor-  ruins  of  the  Theatre,  with  the  exception  of  :-lIIIIC  slight  damage  ~.1  ,  .,  1  turitely  been  left  there  b  y  the  workmen.  Withi  n  a  few  minutes  done  to  Mr.  Beath's  oys  ter-sho  p,  and  Nathan's  fruit-shop,  in  after  it  was'  first  observed,  the  flames  burst  out  at  the  roof,  and  Vinegar-yard,  which  was  ocea  , STYLE=superscript  ioned  by  the  falling  of  the  walls.  i  '  .  encircled  the  statue  of  Apollo.  About  a  quarter  before  twelve,  of  the  Theatre  in  that  direction.  Some  of  the  houses  partially  the  statue;  part  of  the  ro6f  on  which  it  stood,  fell  in  with  a  caug  ht  fire  in  Russel-street.  but  the  engines  with  a  plentiful  sup-  .terrible  -crash.  There  •  was  a  reservoir  of  water  on  the  roof;  ply  of  water,  continued  to  play  on  the  houses  contiguous  to  the  butneither  its  contents,  nor  all  the  engines  that  could  be  applied,  Theatre.  The  walls  in  every  quarter  have  been  (teem  helemed,  produced  any  effect  on  the  flames.  Theroof  fell  down  by  frag-  with  the  exception  of  those  coustituting  the  east  end,  toward*  menus,  lind  not  altat.once,  as  is  common  in  buildings  destroyed  Drury-lane.  It  turns  out  that  the  edifice  was  en-elect  on  timber  by  ire.  piers,  cased  with  stone.  The  destructiou  of  the  whole  building  The  flankasArst  broke  out  in  the  work-rooms  immediately  is  of  course  easily  accounted  fur.  •  '  •,  over  the  Lounge,  or  the  Lobby,  where  the  •andienee  resorted  It  is  positively  stated,  that  the  natchinan  of  the  Theatre,  after  going  his  rounds  at  nine  o'clock,  atmounced,  in  the  u-nat  way,  for  refreihment.  The  en  g  ines  ,  although  instantly.  sent  for,  could  not  reach.  the  scene  of  .- STYLE=superscript  destruction  in  time  to  give  effectual  IP-  that  all  was  well.  The  Insurance  Offices  will  he  very  cow:4er-  I  sistance.  It  was  nearly  half  past  eleven  before  they  could  ad-  able  sufferers.  In  consequence  of  the  late  tire  :.;  (~win-garden  Theatre,  it  was  deemed  prudent  to  enlarge  the  instironce  of  the  minister  any  aid,  and  at  that.  period  the  violence  of  the  flames  w.as  itzesistibfre.  The  tnast.serious  fears  were  eoter.tatafd  for  all  Drury-lane  property.  The  whole  of  the  insurances  etrecteCi  ~  Ate  house.ssituAted  in  Vinegar-yard,  Woburn-court  .  ,  .and  the  ad-  amounts  to  about  10,0001.  It  is•  not  quite  a  finnan  since  an  in-  •I.  surance  for  10,00  W.  was  refused  by  the.  A  Ibion  and  the  (  ilobe  peent  passages.  ..  When  the  Are  was  ffirst  discovered  in  the  Interior  of  the  The,  O  ff  ices.  No  fire  has  oceurred  fur  the  last  fitty  years  in  the  ,  *tre,  several  attempts  were  made  to  extinguish  it  t..  bat  it  .bad  metropolis,  that  has  been  attended  with  soch  rap  id.  and  ;leeisivp  completely  identified  itself  with  the  wood,  and  in  Jess  thaw  five  destruction.  .It  is  due  to  the  exertions  of  the  firemen  belonging  1:  to  the  different  Offices,  to  observe,  that  they  worked  the  engines  after  the  eutrance  of  -btr.  JohltsteD,  the  Alachinist,  who,  gesidipg  close  to  the.  „WALK,  was  one  of  the  first  Abat  wittlePOO  with  •  incessant  labour  .and  great  judgment..  All  their  Worts  the,  progress  .of  the.  *tines.  the  boxes,.  pit,  KO.  stage,  mete  were,  however,  in  vain;  and  it  was  found  totally  intlio,sii.44l  to  .i  .  i  preserve  a  single  vestige  of  the  interior.  of  the  !onuse  s  Tte,  amt.  frered  .W  . STYLE=superscript  ith  fire  .441  ,mAkc.  0  thy  0.151009,0  41  .1#4,4*(4,  -PAW*  . STYLE=superscript  111  , STYLE=superscript  44-  ..i.ftrian  A  •  ,  I  Wilde  assembled  pa  -the  PCClNiaD.Bl2loapiad.  Watie#St  - STYLE=superscript  a(buadret  .  •  .4'  ."
