text
"No.  69.  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  -t  ,  4  ,  t  .  •  .ur  tuna;  can:  tttution,  anb.Lazg.  •  PRICE  9d.  been  in  chief  part  occasioned  by  !this  origin,  much  inure  w,  indeed,  'than  by  any  particular  events  and  circum circumstances  stances circumstances  which  have  subsequently  occurred.  The  fountain  of  the  evil  has  been  in  the  hostile  feeling-4n  tho  unfriendly  mindi  which  has  so  loig  characterised  the  intercourse  of  the  two  Governments.  Lacli,  seeing,  nni  judging  through  this  medium,  have.tOrmed  the  most  perverse  lingual  con conclusions;*  clusions;* conclusions;*  each  has  argued  that  his  own  peculiar  interest  was  ,directly  .  coutrar.y  ..  to  the  interests  of  the  other,  and  that  America  and  England,  to  be  in  their  true  political  relation,  should  be  natural  enemies.  .  .  ..  ..  As  to  the  immediate  cause  of  the  American  Embargo,  it  must  not  be  contended,  but  that  the  English  Ministry  hue  apparently  committed  the  grossest  errors.  France,  with  the  view  of  destroying  the  English  commerce,  issued  the  Berlin  Decree,  by  which  she  erected  herself  into  the  Sovereip  of  all  neutral  nations,  and  in  this  asserned  cha character  racter character  issued  an  edict  for  putting  a  kingdom  under  block blockade.  ade. blockade.  •  The  promulgation  of  this  Decree  was  certainly  a  most  outrageous  extravagance  of  despotism.  But  it  had  not,  and  indeed  could  not  have,  a  practical  (Sect  commen commensurate  surate commensurate  with  its  Witness  of_  menace.  It  fell,  in  fact,  as  a  tru  Iv  n  J  . STYLE=superscript  :ellen—as  a  thunder-bolt  iu  the  seas,  extinguished  as  soon  us  it-fell.  it  was  in  vain  for  those  to  issue  an  edict  of  bluckaile;  - STYLE=superscript  who  had  no-aliiiii  .ntwnr  to  exccute  their  decree.  The  English  psissesseds  . STYLE=superscript  the  whole  fare  of  the  seas;  and  Neutrals  and  English  might,  therefore,  atilse  have  •  contemned  tlie'Berlin  Order.  Ilere,  therefore,  was  the  main  error  of  the  English  Ministry.  They  looked  rather  to  the  despotism  of  the  De Decree—to  cree—to Decree—to  its  extra  vagaat  insolence  and  haughtiness,  than  to  its  prectical  effect.  If  they  had  considered  only  the  1  latter  quality,  as  in  prudence  they  ought  to  have  done,  they  would  have  passed  the  French  Decree  in  sileut  con contempt--they  tempt--they contempt--they  would  have  deemed  the  contrast  of  its  menace  with  its  imbecility,  as  worthy  only  of  ridicule.  Instead  of  taking  it  in  this  point  of  view,  the  English  Ministry  most  absurdly  regarded  it  only  as  an  outrageous  insult,  and  acting  upon  their  feelings,  instead  of  their  judgments,  retaliated,  as  they  thought,  by  a  limiter  mea measure.  sure. measure.  Passion,  however,  is  usually  too  blind,  and  too  precipitate,  to  distinguish  the  exact  nature  either  of  its  objects  or  of  its  instruments.  And  NO,  in  feet,  it  happened  in  this  ca;e  ;  the  retaliation  was  so  only  in  appearance—it  was,  in  fact,  a  repetition,  an  extension,  at  the  mischief  upon  our  own  heads.  The  enemy  issued  a  decree,  but  could  not  execute  it.  hi  our  precipitate  folly  we  took  the  execution  iu  our  own  hands;  we  literally  swept  the  seas  ;  we  actually  blockaded  France,'  and  by  the  conditions  winch  we  imposed  upon  Neutrals,  prevented  them  erectus  ally  from  coining  to  our  own  Ports.  America,  unable  to  @ell  our  manufactures,  was  very  indifferent  as  to  buying  them.  Her  possible  commerce  was  !hulled  by  what  was  immediately  wanted  by  herself.  This  bias  rowpn  rnti  sely  very  little.  Two  important  results  immediately  follawed— follawedin  in follawedin  the  first  place,  ,our  English  manufacturers  suffered  most  I  considerably  from  the  diminished  demand;  and  iu  the  se-"
