text
"NvrioNAL  ItEGlBtEit.  and  April  22,  at  eleven,  at  the  Cock  Inn,  Guishrough.  Attor Attornies,  nies, Attornies,  llr.  Waddell,  cinishrough  ;  and  Messrs.  Willis,  Warnford Warnfordcourt,  court, Warnfordcourt,  Throgniorton--trcet.  John  Tomiins,  Bristol,  grocer,  March  24,  27,  and  April  22,  at  eleven,  at  the  \V  iiite  I,i  on,  Bristol.  A  ttoruies,  Messrs.  Broome  and  Pinniger,  Grav  - STYLE=superscript  s  Inn-ware.  Benjamin  Polack,  Sheffield,  watehmaker.  March  23,  24,  and  April  22,  at  eleven,  at  Healey's  Ilotel,  Sheffield.  Attornies,  Nr.  Greaves,  Sheffield  ;  and  Mr.  Batt)  e,  Chancery-lane.  Peter  Dobson,  Clatt7hton,  Lancaster,  cotton-spinner,  April  6,  7,  and  April  22,  at  eleten,  at  the  Red  Lion  Inn.  Preston.  Attor Attornies,  nies, Attornies,  Mr,  Dewhurst,  Preston  ;  and  Messrs.  Barretts,  Holborn-  u  -t,  Gray's  Inn.  Wolfe  Lyon,  Denzell-  - STYLE=superscript  -areet,  Clare-market,  glass-merchant,  March  1.6,  April  1,  and  22,  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Benson,  Dorset-street,  Salisbury-square.  Richard  Forster,  1!  4 STYLE=superscript  711-street,  Bloomsbury;  cheesemon7er,  March  14,  April  8,  and  22,  at  one,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Wilde,  Warwick-square,  Nesvgate-street.  John  Breakspear,  Oxford-street,  silversmith,  March  16,  April  1,  and  22,  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  Attornies,  Messrs.  114.Kliellor  and  Potts,  Seljeant's  Inn,  Fleet-street.  Edward  Bradley,  sen.  Bromley,  baker,  March  18,  28,  and  A  pril  22,  at  twelve,  at  Guildhall.  Attornies,  Messrs.  Neeld  and  Fladgate,  Norfolk-street,  Strand.  John  Jones,  Gloucester,  cyder-merchant,  March  9.3,  24,  and  April  2Q,  at  ten,  at  the  King's  Head  Inn,  Gloucester.  Attor Attornies,  nies, Attornies,  Messrs.  Jenkins,  James,  Abbott,  and  Co.  New  4n,  Lon London  don London  ;  and  Messrs.  Wilton,  Gloucester.  John  Charles  Finch,  Russell-court.  .Drury-lane,•  tavern tavern!eeper,  !eeper, tavern!eeper,  March  14,  21,  and  April  22,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall.  At AttOrney,  tOrney, AttOrney,  Mr.  Bower,  Clifford's  Inn.  John  Gurney,  Acre-lane,  Brixton-Causeway,  carpenter,  March  21,  25,  and  April  22,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  11  r.  Godmond,  New  Bridge-street,  Blackfriars.  Peter  Firinin,  Dedham,  Essex,  money-scrivener,  March  18,  23,  and  April  22,  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  \\oodgate,  Golden-square.  James  Brace,  Butt-lane,  Deptford,  dealer,  March  14,  23,  'and  April  22,  at  one,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Searle,  hild's  Place,  Temple  Bar.  Rich=rll  Samuel,  High-street,  St.  Giles,  linen  draper,  March  IS,  A  pril  1,  and  '22,  at  twelve,  at  Guildhall.  Attornies,  Messrs.  Frost  d  and  Blandford,  Temple.  DIVIDENDS.  April  3.  Thomas  oun;r,,  Ripon,  York,  grocer,  at  eleven,  M  the  Norfolk  ArnlS,  Ripon—April  S.  Samuel  Ihbetson,  Lud Ludgate-hill,  gate-hill, Ludgate-hill,  oilks-mereer,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall—April  1.  Tllmmks  Enort  Smith,  Smut  Trinity-lane;  leather-‘eller,  at  ten  ?  at  Guild-.  25'.  George  Bailie  and  John  Jaffray,  Finsbury Finsburyplace,  place, Finsburyplace,  merchants,  at  twelve,  at  Guildhall—April  S.  John  Chey Cheyney,  ney, Cheyney,  Oxford-street,  linen-draper,  at  twelve,  at  Guildhall  —  May  9.  3  oho  Tennant,  Oxford-street,  wine-merchant,  at  twelve,  at  Guildhall—March  15.  John  Somerville,  Chancer3-k.ne,  ca cabinet-maker,  binet-maker, cabinet-maker,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall—April  19.  William  l'opple l'opplestOn,  stOn, l'opplestOn,  Borouo  of  Plymouth,  grocer,  at  eleven,  at  the  Commer Commercial  cial Commercial  Inn,  Plymouth—April  1.  John  Turner,  Swelling,  Suffolk,  draper,  at  eleven,  at  the  Bell  Inn,  ...Saxmundham,  Suffolk.  CERTIFICATES  —Aran  , STYLE=superscript  1,  Thomas  White,  Strood  Rochester,  Kent,  coal-merchant—JO coal-merchant—JOteph  teph coal-merchant—JOteph  111anchester,  grocer—llenry  Mercer  and  Joseph  Forshaw,  Liverpool,  merchants—Peter  Le  Normand  and  Mary  Henry  Dornant,  Kent-road,  Surrey,  soap-manufacturers—Ed soap-manufacturers—Edward  ward soap-manufacturers—Edward  Chew,  Charlotte-street,  W  hi  ter  hapel,  money-Scrivener  —  Nicholas  Blaunin,  Westbury-upon-Trim,  61oucester,  timber timbermerchant.  merchant. timbermerchant.  THE  11-IL:1'1'11E.  lIAY-ALIRKET.  After  a  long  interval,  during  which  some  of  our  best  plays  have  been  performed,  the  Managers  of  Covent  Garden  Company  have  at  length  made  an  attempt  at  novelty  in  a  new  Comedy,  which  was  produced  at  this  Theatre  on  Thursday  evening  called  '  Independence.  or  the  Trustee.'  with  respect  to  plot,  the  comedy  before  us  possesses  so  little,  that  any  person  may  foresee  at  the  beginning  what  will  he  the  conrlusio'i  of  the  play.  The  dialogue  is  also  very  defective,  it  has  neither  wit,  humour,  sentiment,  or  even  pun  to  recommend  it,  but  is  absurd  and  vid,:ar  iu  the  highest  degree  was  heaial  with  patience  till  the  close,  when  tic  disapprobation  of  the  au audience  dience audience  became  loud  and  general,  and  it  was  given  out  for  re repetition  petition repetition  amidst  an  universal  tumult  of  hisses  and  murtnur4.  MARCH  12.  ELOPEMENT.  Lady  Charlotte  Wellesley's  elopement  with  Lord  Paget  is  the  theme  of  general  conversation  in  the  West-end  of  the  town.  Her  Ladyship  arose  at  the  usual  hour  on  Monday,  and  after  passing  some  time,  according  to  her  custom,  with  her  infant  family,  iu  the  nursery,  she  left  it  for  the  breakfast-room,  iv  here  she  break breakfasted  fasted breakfasted  alone;  Mr.  U.  *Wellesley,  her  husband,  being  confined  to  his  room  by  indisposition.  Shortly  after  she  ordered  a  foot footman  man footman  to  attend  her  to  the  Green  Park,  having  a  wish,  as  she  said,  to  take  a  walk.  She  left  him  at  the  gate,  with  di directions  rections directions  to  return  for  her  in  an  hour.  During  this  interval,  Mr.  11.  Wellesley  had  left  his  room,  and  inquired  for  her.  A  servant  was  sent  to  the  Green  Park  to  look  for  her,  Wit  all  search  there  and  every  where  else  proved  ineffectual.  When  Lady  Charlotte  left  the  house,  her  agitation  Wf.S  so  great  as  to  be  apparent  to  all  the  domestics  ;  the  butler  particularly  ob observed,  served, observed,  that  •in  the  hurried  manner  in  which  she  prepared  to  lease  the  house,  she  had  put  on  her  cloak  with  the  wrong  side  out,  The  footman  who  attended  her  also  observed  much  agitas  tion  in  her  manner,  while,  with  a  hurried  step,  she  was  pro  ceeding  to  the  Green  Park.  It  had  been  also  customary  with  her  to  take  her  eldest  child  for  her  companion,  in  her  morning  walk.  The  little  fellow  earnestly  desired  the  usual  indul indulgence,  gence, indulgence,  but  she  refused,  and  he  was  left  behind:  Mr.  Wellesley  sent  his  children  to  the  house  of  his  brother,  at  Chelsea.  On  the  same  evening,  Lady  Emily  Wellesley,  her  sister,  came  to  his  house  in  Curzon-street  ;  and  having  received  from  her  mo mother  ther mother  the  keys  of  her  sister's  drawers,  carried  off  part  of  their  contents  in  three  bundles,  without  having  seen  Mr.  H.  Welles.;  ley.  As  soon  as  he  was  informed  of  this  circumstance,  he  se secured  cured secured  the  remaining  articles;  and  observed,  that  Lady  Emily  must  explain  this  circumstance  hereafter.  It  also  appears  from  the  statement  of  the  domestics  who  attended  upon  her  out  of  doors,  that  she  had  ordered,  within  the  last  ten  days,  consi considerable  derable considerable  quantities  of  dresses  of  various  kinds,  at  the  same  time  desiring  the  trades-people  not  to  send  them  to  her  house,  but  to  keep  them  until  she  should  send  for  them.  Lord  Paget,  according  to  various  statements,  accompanied  the  Expedition  to  Spain  chiefly  in  order  to  disembarrass  himself  from  the  affection  which  he  secretly  cheribhed  for  Lady  C.  Wel Wellesley.  lesley. Wellesley.  Absence  is  perhaps  the  worst  expedient  to  which  lovers  can  resort.  The  moment  Lord  P.  returned,  the  flame  for  some  time  repressed,  broke  out  in  him  with  redoubled  violence,  and  produced  the  catastrophe  now  deplored  by  the  relations  on  both  sides.  It  was  .  rumoured,  we  should  observe,  that  a  duel,  at attended  tended attended  with  lamentable  consequences,  had  taken  effect  between  Lord  P.  and  Sir  A.  W.  ;  but,  in  the  absence  of  better  accounts,  we  do  not  think,  from  the  attendance  of  the  latter  in  his  senato senato-4'riai  4'riai senato-4'riai STYLE=superscript  capacity;  that  any  credit  is  attached  to  such  report•  .  ,  M/IRDER.—A  barbarous  murder  was  committed  ou  Thursday  evening,  on  the  body  of  Miss  Fourner  , STYLE=superscript  an  am  ia STYLE=superscript  b  le STYLE=superscript  y  oun STYLE=superscript  g  lad STYLE=superscript  y  twenty:four  years  of  ago,  the  daughter  of  an  opulent  farmer  at  Chepstowe,  Wilts.  Miss  Fourner  had  received  the  addresses  of  a  young  man  of  the  name  of  Fawke,  for  the  last  two  years,  but  in  consequence  of  some  disagreement  the  inatth  was  broke  off,  and  the  young  lady  gained  another  suitor.  She  had  been  on  a  visit  at  a  hisuse  half  a  mile  from  her  residence,  on  Thursday  evening,  and  on  returning  home  with  her  male  friend,  at  tea  o'clock  on  the  night  stated,  they  were  attacked  by  two  persons,  one  of  whoisi  knocked  the  man  down  with  a  bludgeon,  and  the  other  hurried  off  Miss  F.  from  the  spot.  She  was  found  dead  in  the  same  field  in  an  hour  after  this  transaction,  cut  in  different  harts  of  the  head  and  body.  Fawke  has  not  been  since  seen  at  the  village  of  Chi  pstowe,  where  he  also  resided;  and  there  are  strong  proofs  of  his  having  been  the  pe...etrator  of  the  horrid  murder.  The  young  man  who  was  vi  ith  Miss  F.  lies  in  a  dan dangerous  gerous dangerous  state.  DIED.  •  Saturday  sennight,  of  a  mortification  in.  his  leg,  occasioned  by  the  bite  of  a  dog,  Mr.  John  Knott,  of  Turvin,  at  the  advanced  age  of  iO2,  sincerely  regretted  by  all  who  had  the  pleasure  of  his  acquaintance.  Sunday  se'nnight,  Mr..  Richard  Strecting,  nursery-man,  of  Windsor,  after  a,  long  and  painful  illness,  occasioned  by  a  smoak smoakin..  in.. smoakin..  a  pipe  which  caused  a  cancer  in  his  lip,  by  nut  waxing  the  end  of  his  pipe  before  he  put  it  to  his  mouth.  Ck  S  P16_TB00012 .s  neither  wit,  humour,  sentiment,  or  even  pun  to  recommend  but  is  absurd  and  in  the  highest  degree—  was  heaid  YESTERDAY'S  PRICE  OF  STOCKS. STYLE=superscript  ith  patience  till  the  close,  when  thc  disapprobation  of  Ow  an-  3  per  Cent.  Consols  G7l  1-5  per  Cent.  Navy  97i  i—Exclicquer  once  became  loud  and  general,  and  it  was  given  out  for  re-  Bills  10,  11  pm.—Ditto  Fundable  14,  11  pm.—lndia  Bond,  4.  tition  amidst  an  universal  tumult  of  hisses  and  murmur  11,  le  pah—Lottery  Tickets  ,e2l  19—Cons.  for  Account  61:  lilted  and  Published  by  and  for  .T,  B.  BELL  and  J.  DE  CAMP,  at  the  Office  of  Le  Beau  Mande  ;  or,  Literary  and  FasAiun.  -.,.,"
