text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  which  was  a  decisive  proof  that  those  things  were  considered  as  money's  worth,  as  a  marketable  commodity.  It  was  impossible  for  him  to  know  that  the  practice  which  had  prevailed  to  such  an  extent  in  a  neighbouring  kingdom,  also  prevailed  in  this  country.  if  this  practice  was  not  destroyed,  it  would  in  the  end  destroy  us.  .As  to  the  tale  of  judicial  aituations,  he  did  not  pretend  to  say  that  it  affected  the  purity  of  the  Administration,  but  he  would  still  say  that  it  was  an  anomAy,  which  should  he  removed.  It  would  be  easy  to  place  the  fees  of  their  offices  in  a  general  fund,  for  increasing  the  salaries  of  the  judges.  lie  agreed  perfectly  with  his  ilot:ourable  friend  (Mr.  Crcecey)  that  a  Dissolution  of  Parliament  was  not  an  appeal  to  the  people  but  to  the  Treasury.  On  the  last  Dissolution  Ministers  endeavoured  to  set  the  people  mad,  and  then  talked  of  appealing  to  their  sense.  The  sense  of  the  people  had  some  slight  influence  fat  a  General  Election  ;  but  the  great  preponderating  influence  was  the  influence  of  the  Treasury.  The  Bill  was  then  read  a  second  time,  and  ordered  to  be  committed  on  Tuesday  sennight.—adjourned.  Friday,  ilyril  21.  No  business  of  importance.  TO  OUR  SUBSCRIBERS  AND  THE  PUBLIC.  A.  Portrait  of  the  DUKE  of  KENT,  engraved  by  Scilly  Inv,  from  a  Picture  by  Edridge,  in  the  possession  of  the  Princess  Arne*  that  was  intended  to  be  delivered  GRATIS  This  Day,  could  not  possibly  he  prepared  in  time.  The  Proprietors  possi-  '  tively  assure  their  Subscribers  and  the  Pu4lie,  that  the  Portrait  will  be  ready  for  delivery  on  SUNDAY  NEXT,  April  SO.  'Tie  Proprietors  of  The  National  .I??gister  have  learned  Iv  ith  the  utmost  regret,  that  many  of  its  Readers  have  been  deprived  of  receiving  the  Portraits  which  have  been  delivered  GRATIS.  To  prevent  similar  complaints,  and  to  secure  the  preservation  of  the  Portraits,  as  well  as  to  pi  f:vetit  anneressary  and  improper  ci  , STYLE=superscript  :rges,  the  Proprietors  he  leave  to  inform  Subscribers,  that  the  Prints  will  not,  for  the  future,  he  delivered  to  the  Venders  of  Newspapers,  without  particular  orders  from  the  Subscriber.  The  Portraits  will  be  left  at  the  Mice  until  seat  for.  Immediate  Orders  should  be  sent  to  the  Office,  11,  Catherine Catherinestre;.A,  stre;.A, Catherinestre;.A,  Strand,  by  letter,  post  paid,  or  given  to  the  Newsmen.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  tottDon,  SUNDAY,  APRIL  23,  1809.  POLITIC.IL  lir6NT9  CP  TI:111  R'EER.  DESTRUCTION  OF  THE  BREST  FLEET.  It  is  with  the  most  sincere  pleasure  we  have  to  announce,  that  ztnothcr  laurel  has  been  added  to  the  National  Wreath,  invos!l  the  Temples  of  the  Guardian  Genius  of  Bria.  Victory,  indeed,  to  use  the  words  of  poetry,  st,i7is  to  have  tiken  her  permanent  scat  in  the  I.lfith  tm tmn;res  n;res tmn;res  —here  she  secnis  to  wave  ;  ter  wings  ,  and  to  Bold  lbr  proudest  throne.  The  assault  on  the  Trench  Fleet,  in  Basque  Roads,  has  bccn  as  successful  as  the  fondest  imagination  could  antici anticipate.  pate. anticipate.  The  Brest  Fleet  has  been  altogether  destroyed,  or  reodered  unserviceable.  Perhaps,  the  whole  Naval  History  of  the  country  cannot  produce  an  example,  in  which  British  Valour  has  made  a  more  daring  attempt,  and  been  accom accompanied  panied accompanied  with  a  more  brilliant  result.  It  is  truly  cheering  to  our  hearts,  that  in  a  lime  of  so  much  general  disaster  to  all  the  States  of  Europe,  we  have  such  frequent  occasions  to  congratulate  our  countrymen  on  our  own  successes.  If  in  the  gcaeral  club  of  the  war  every  one  had  contributed"
