text
"oNTARCII  19.  objection  , STYLE=superscript  to  that  v.  ituess's  evidence,  which  he  took  fait&amp;  into  116  con-ideration  before  he  decided  upon  th  merits  of  her  testi testimony.  mony. testimony.  There  were,  however,  eer:Liu  strong  - STYLE=superscript  points  in  her  evidence,  w  Melt,  though  she  came  before  the  House  as  a  per.-..0u  herring,;  reentntent  against  his  Ito\  al  . STYLE=superscript  k  7 STYLE=superscript  !:.hrie  s STYLE=superscript  `'  , STYLE=superscript  were  Milt  ell  -- STYLE=superscript  titled  to  impiicit  credit.  :here  the  Lean:::;!  Gentleman  com commented  mented commented  upon  the  featurej  of  Mrs.  Clarite's  in.inner  and  te,titnonv,  which  particularly  entitled  her  to  credit.  The  apparent  levity  t:to  former,  iie  thoty,.,ltt  must  ht.7..e  removed  from  the  mind  of  every  impartial  nt  ttay  suspicion  that  her  evidence  wa  , STYLE=superscript  fin...tied  upon  tiny  preconeerted  plan,  and  consequcutly,  that  its  it  was  her  object  to  deceive,  she  w  until  have  used  more  circum circumspection.  spection. circumspection.  With  respect  to  the  latter,  ninn  to.y.  her  evidence  it itself,  self, itself,  it  stood  completely  uuontradieted  in  any  material  parts,  and  it  was  supported,  first,  by  the  ttnimpeacited  te  , STYLE=superscript  timony  of  J.iss  Taylor,  and  the  epistolary  cot  respoto:ence  of  the  Oto.se  of  York.  ;  and,  scrutiny,  the  imincrous  witnesic,  who  bore  het  oat  it)  almost  every  sWr-tatitial  tact.  The  honourable  and  Learned  Gentleman  contrasted  the  case  of  his  Royal  with  that  of  Lord  Melville,  and  cot  tenikd  strongly  that  it  was  impussib:Le  for  the  ilouse  to  pass  over  the  conduct  of  his  ;loyal  ighoess  without  adopting  some  similar  course  of  proceeding  in  tie  present  instance.  Ile  would  yield  as  little  to  popular  cla claincur  incur claincur  as  any  man,  yet  he  could  not  help  cousidernig,  tit:lt  by  their  own  act,  the  evidence  hail  all  ;wen  given  to  the  pehlie,  and  they  woui::  form  a  judgment  upon  the  case  as:  well  as  them themsAves.  sAves. themsAves.  The  Hon.  and  I.:ran:oil  Gentleman  concluded  a  most  able  and  eloquent  speech,  -,ith  declaring  thatti&amp;  felt  he  had  a  to  t!-,t  sokum  duty  to  perform,  and  however  pitiful  to  his  feelings  it  might  be,  he  should  vote  for  the  original  motion.  il,  SI!  rr  it  spoke  at  considerable  length  ;  but  AO  much  noise  prevailed  in  the  House,  that  it  was  impossible  to  collect  Iv  hat  he  The  Sc  LIC  ITOR-GENER  A  T.,  in  a  speech  of  nearly  three  hours,  supported  ttk  resolutions  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exche Exchequer,  quer, Exchequer,  and  at  - STYLE=superscript  tat  that  it.  would  be  unfair  to  condemn  his  Royal  llighness  without  ,sending  him  before  a  tribunal  where  he  might  have  an  opportunity  Of  vindicating  his  innocence.  The  Learned  -Ueittleman  took  a  copious  review  of  the  evidence  broug  - STYLE=superscript  ht  in  support  of  the  charges,  and  concluded  with  expressing  his  full  011‘ictioo  of  the  iniliießi:Ce  of  the  Royal  Duke  4..tti  the  Motion  of  Lord  ('.A  STLL•'iLEAGLU  the  house  adjourned.  Tuesday,  March  14,  TILE  DUKE  OF  YORK.  Mr.  WYNN  rose,  nod  said  he  lamented  that  the  ll  .  onse  should  be  called  upon  to  pursue  a  line  of  proceeding,  which  would  pre prevent  vent prevent  them  from  sating  distinctly  either  aye  or  no,  to  the  pro propositions  positions propositions  offered  to  their  consideration.  Whether  the  Duke  of  York  was  unfit  to  hold  the  situation  of  Commander  in  Chief,  and  not  that  of  subjecting  him  to  particular  trial.  Be  would  simply  compare  his  case  to  that  of  any  domestic  servian,  who  =hoot('  he  indicted  for  an  offence,  of  which  however  there  was  not  sufficient  evidence  to  convict  him  capitally,  :set  that  it  should  come  out  that  there  had  been  very  good  ground  for  accu accusation.  sation. accusation.  Under  such  circumstances,  he  would  ask,  was  there  any  Member  in  the  Howe  who  would  retain  such  a  servant  any  tenger  in  his  service  i  Ile  believed  not.  lle  should  conceive  the  case  of  Samuel  Carter,  who  was  certainly  a  very  improper  petT,mt  to  have  been  put  into  the  army,  but  whose  case  was  cer certainly  tainly certainly  of  all  the  others  the  least  deserving  of  reprehension,  to  he  one  on  which  a  verdict  could  be  given.  It  was  more  than  proba probable  ble probable  that  his  fLoyalllighness  on  this  would  be  acquitted  of  corrupt  connivance.  Let  him  then  suppose  that  there  were  fifty  other  cases  of  improper  promotions  of  the  sal  e.  kind,  still  if  there  was  no  stronger  proof  of  corruption  in  any  of  them  than  in  the  first,  he  would  in  all  probability  be  acquitted  of  the  wh)le,  and  by  that  means  thegerieral  culpability  of  the  person  so  arcused  would  go  unpunished.  The  charge  which  appeared  to  him  the  heaviest  against  the  . STYLE=superscript  Duke  of  York,  and  which  could  be  made  the  ground  of  impeachment,  was  the  case  of  Kennet  the  money-lender.  In  this  case  the  charge  of  corruption  Would  have  been  fully  proved,  had  not  the  negociation  been  broken  off  by  the  circumstance,  :Is  appeared  by  the  testimony  of  Mr.  Gr  eenwood, STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  his  being  nn nnappeared  appeared nnappeared  With Withable  able Withable  to  provide  the  money  he  p  romised STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  advance. STYLE=superscript  out  laying  any  stress  whatever  on  the  evidence  of  Mrs.  Clar  ke, STYLE=superscript  although  he  was  not  disposed  to  think  that  she  ought  to  he  put  so  entirely  aside,  as  Honourable  Members  on  the  other  side  of  the  House  were  pleased  to  thin  k STYLE=superscript  she STYLE=superscript  deserved, STYLE=superscript  yet STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  remaining STYLE=superscript  evidence  on  the  Minutes  was  sufficient  to  sustain  the  charge  of  corruption  and  connivance  agai  nst STYLE=superscript  hie  It  y  llighness.  The  evidence  of  Miss  Taylor,  a  witness,proud  to  have  heard  a  Learned  (it:adman  (the  Allister  of  tht  itolls)  state  to  be  per-"
