text
"ebe  pulpit.  The  Pulpit.  therefore,  and  I  name  it  ljlled  With  snleinn  awe,  that  bids  me  weil  beware  With  what  intent  I  touch  that  holy  thing  LECTURES  ON  THE  LITURGY,  By  G.  ANDREWES,  DID.  op  Sr.  .1.11  IIES's  CHURCII,  lY  ritELININARY  REFLECTIONS.  MAE  the  commencement  of  my  clerical  Criticisms,  have  repeatedly  considered  the  title  by  which  they  were  first  designated  ;  and,  anxious  to  remove  every  objection,  1  am  now  induced  to  alter  It.  The  words  Popular  Preachers,  though  perfectly  significant  of  my  original  aim,  I  wish  to  exchange  for  those  of  The  Pulpit,  a$  admitting  of  extended  and  ,extending  applicability,  and  as  obviating  the  impro impropriety  priety impropriety  which  seems  to  attach,  owing  to  common  usage,  to  the  word  popular.  Holy  things  demand  holy  words  ;  and  therefore  words,  no  less  than  men,  should,  whenso whensoever  ever whensoever  this  is.  practicable,  be  set  apart  for  the  use  of  the  sanc sanctuary,  tuary, sanctuary,  and  consecrated  to  its  service.  1  proceed  to  the  subject  before  us.  Prayer,  presenting  the  sole  medium  of  intercourse  be between  tween between  the  Creature  and  his  Creator,  between  humanity  and  divinity,  forms  one  of  the  most  important  offices  in  which  the  race  of  man  can  possibly  engage.  Numerous  are  the  formularies  of  devotional  intercession,  national  as  well  as  individual,  written  by  divers  pious  persons,  which  have  accordingly  appeared  in  aid  of  religious  prayer.  Christianity  has  been  eminently  productive  of  such  coin  positions.  Many  of  our  most  distinguished  characters  among  the  laity,  as  clergy,  in  state  as  in  church,  have  bequeathed  to  us  inestimable  examples  of  pious  prayers.  As  to  this  part  of  national  devotion,  common  'prayer,  it  is  difficult  to  conceive,  at  the  present  distance  of  time,  the  veneration  in  which  it  was  held  by  our  venerable  ancestors.  44 STYLE=superscript  It  is  not  without  a  said  the  noble  Bacon,  when  he  was  Chancellor  of  England,  in  one  of  his  Charges  to  the  King's  Verge,  4i STYLE=superscript  that  Christ's  coat  had  no  seam;  ricir  no  more  should  the  Church,  if  it  were  possible.  Therefore  if  any  Minister  re refuse  fuse refuse  to  use  the  Book  of  Common-Prayer,  or  wilfully  swerveth,  in  Diviue  Ser.%  ice,  from  that  book  ;  or  if  any  person  whatsoever  doth  scandalise  that  book,  and  speak  openly  and  maliciously  in  derogation  of  that  book  ;  such  men  do  but  make  a  rent  in  the  gari;cat,  and  such  are  by  you  to  be  enquired  One  of  Queen  Elizabeth's  emir emirtiers,  tiers, emirtiers,  according  to  the  same  authority,  besought  her,  with  mitclu  voice,  on  the  morning  of  her  coronation,  before  numberi  of  her  courtiers,  that  in  this  good  time,  it  being  cuatoinary  to  release  prisoners  thus,  there  might  be  four  jjeo  principal  prisoners  more  released  ;  which  were  the  Put  Evangelists  and  the  apostle  St.  Paul,  who  had  been  Nag  shut  up  in  an  unknown  tongue,  as  if  they  were  in  prison.  We  live  in  other  times.  Centuries  of  delusion,  the  ages  of  priestcra  ft,  are  paw('  away  :  and  our  national  Commoe-Prayer,  as  well  as  the  Evangelists  and  Saint  Paul,  emancipated  from  their  imprisonment,  cordially  address  us  iu  our  mother-tongee  !  This  is  our  boast,  religiously  and  politically,  that  we  know  the  grounds  upon  which  we  are  to  act.  •  Among  other  reasons  for  set  Forms  of  ob observes  serves observes  Adlisou,  ''  I  have  often  thought  it  a  very  good  one,  that  by  this  mca:is  the  folly  and  extravagance  of  men's  de desires  sires desires  mar  be  kept  within  due  bounds;  and  not  break  out  in  absurd  and  ridiculous  petitions,  on  so  great  and  solemn  an  - STYLE=superscript  Here  then,  as  far  as  reason  looks,  is  one  of  the  principal  argeineuts  in  support  of  set  Forms  of  altogether.  Piety.  nevertheless,  might  start  some  ()like ()liketops  tops ()liketops  to  any  ste  in.  however  in  iff,elf  excellent,  which  I,  if  aving  now  thrown  out  some  few  unostentatious  obser observations  vations observations  tin  the  eligibility  of  adepting  et  forms  of  prayer  for  the  regulation  of  national  religion,  an  4  expressed  my  ge general  neral general  estimation  for  the  Book  of  Common  Prayer  used  in  the  churches  of  this  country,  1  purpose,  in  my  next  paw.  to  enter  upon  a  cursory  review  of  the  Lectures  on  the  Litnr.;  S  l' STYLE=superscript  yf  which  were  lately  de!iveced  liv  ct,  zt  ':.  1141  P12_TB00008 :ly  productive  of  such  coin  walk,  that  tormed  the  secret  of  the  greatness  of  their  fa.  ost  distinguished  characters  thers,  It  is  to  the  neglect  of  such  training,  politically  no  in  state  as  in  church,  have  less  than  piously,  that  our  present  evils,  together  with  our  examples  of  pious  prayers.  prospective  calamities,  Will  be  found  imputable,  b  devotion,  common  'prayer,  Notwithstanding  my  leaning  towards  national  rituals,  a  he  present  distance  of  time,  and  (with  certain  exceptions  yet  to  be  pointed  out)  my  I  .  was  held  by  our  venerable  special  value  for  the  Book  of  Cernerinn  Prayer  ap  7  o  iout  a  said  the  pointed  to  be  used  among  .  us,  1  can  perceive  the  advan-  b  Chancellor  of  England,  in  takes  of  extemporary  praying,  as  practiced  by  numerous  -)  a  King's  Verge,  that  Christ's  religious  societies  at  this  day.  If  every  gospel  minister  :  more  should  the  Church,  possessed  the  gift  of  prayer,  if  such  pious  prayer  were  the  .  til STYLE=superscript  A  .efore  if  any  Minister  re-  combined  operation  of  soul'and  mind,  of  judgment  as  well  CI  Pnamon-Prayer,  or  wilfully  as  feeling,  then  might  set  forms  of  no  longer  si  'min  that  book  ;or  if  any  appear  necessary  or  eligible,  Much  is  it  to  be  apprehended,  ..1  lalisf,  that  book,  and  speak  however,  that  such  *di  not  be  soon  the.  case,  -It  is  the  SI  4gatiOn  of  that  book  ;  such  peculiar  province  of  extemporary  prayers  to  apply  to  im-  p  a  gari;ent,  and  such  are  by  mediate  events,  and  embrace  particular  persons  ;  but  it  is  o'  of  - STYLE=superscript  Queen  Elizabeth's  cour.  the  benefit  of  printed  prayers,  on  the  other  hand,  that  they  C  4  tbority,  besought  her,  with  I  extend  to  all  cireunistatices  of  time,  and  affect  all  condi.  Ell  of  her  coronation,  before  tions  of  men.  Still  it  is  on  the  ground  of  incapacity,  and  i  tdt  in  this  good  time,  it  being  the  consequent  danger  of  impropriety  if  not  impiety,  that  si  the  .n,  there  might  be  four  set  Forms  of  Prayer  are  mostly  desirable.  lie  who  takes  e  released  ;  which  were  the  with  him  printed  prayers,  knows  what  he  is  to  pray  far;  cc  pstle  St.  Paul,  who  had  been  while  those  who  go  to  hear  extemporary  prayers,  though  w  tongue,  as  if  they  were  in  iii  spirit  and  truth.  often  know  not  to  what  they  m  a  y  w  les.  Centuries  of  delusion,  listen,  in  what  words  they  are  expected  to  join,  or  by  what  fit  iit!d  away  i  and  our  national  nonsense  their  ears  may  be  offended  and  their  minds  in-  (..'4  Evangelists  and  Saint  Paul,  #  suited.  Whether  by  head  or  by  rote,  there  will  he  found,  Ai  i  - STYLE=superscript  t!iient,  cordially  address  us  in  each  method  of  praying.  something  to  censure  as  well  al  so  is  our  boast,  religiously  and  to  commend,  Considering  fairly  the  advantages  and  dig-  grounds  upon  which  we  are  advantages  of  both  modes,  comprehensively  as  well  as  spe-  o STYLE=superscript  f  cifically,  impartiality  must,  I  think,  incline  still  to  prefer  p  v STYLE=superscript  In  set  Forms  of  ob-  set  Forms  of  in  the  perfOrmance  of  public  wore  is  thought  it  a  very  good  one,  ship.  31.1  d  extravagance  of  men's  de-  Having  now  thrown  out  some  few  unostentatious  ohser.  'Il  V  I  minds  ;  and  not  break  out  in  vations  on  the  eligibility  of  adeptiag  set  forms  of  prayer  for  of  ,on  so  g  reat  and  solemn  an  the  regulation  of  national  religion,  and  expressed  my  ge-  ba  is  reason  looks,  is  one  of  the  ueral  estimation  for  the  Book  of  Common  Prayer  used  h  i  wi  tof  set  Forms  of  the  churches  of  this  country,  1  purpose,  th STYLE=superscript  e  in  my  next  paper.  ss,  might  start  some  ohjec-  to  enter  upon  a  cursory  review  of  the  Lectures  on  the  Litiir-  i STYLE=superscript  t  1  11 STYLE=superscript  '  No  in  ii..Af  excellnt,  which  ~r,y,  which  were  lately  de!ivered  !iv  fr.  Avtliv!!  ct,  1!  •':.  mit"
