text
"TTIE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  •  •  •  •  •  Highness  took  it  down  in  the  too  ruing  to  examine.  ---Q.  Did  you  keep  a  list  of  prices  of  Commissions?  A.  No  :  such  a  list  was  quite  unknown  to  Inc  till  lately,  that  1  saw  it  in  Cobhet's  Register.  General  Montague  Mathews  rising  to  speak,  there  was  a  call  of  v‘itildraw,  %viten  the  witness  coin  phined  ofsutVering  consider considerkrsecution.  krsecution. considerkrsecution.  Since  she  had  come  to  that  House,  she  had  'Teel  keJ  a  letter  from  a  person  who  had  before  applied  to  her  in  person.  After  sont~  consideration,  however,  the  letter  was  laid  on  the  'table.  Tae  Ihater  was  read  by  the  Clerk  ;•  it  %las  signed  ''  Wen.  :mil  dated  night,  F,  \  chequer  Coffee  bouse;'  The  substance  of  it.  was,  that  the  writer  was  anXions  to  see  Ms.:.  Clarke  about  the  business  going  on  above  stairs.  'l'o  what  thi::  referred  she  ?tilit  t  rues,  but  it  would  be  improper  to  .lanes'  at  it  on  pap.  , STYLE=superscript  r.  T,'e  letter  concluded  with  begging  an  in.-  vier%iate  11Sn't,l'  to  he  sent  to  the  Exchequer  The  letter  being  read,  Airs.  Clarke  was  asked,  Was  this  the  letter  which,  in  your  opinion,  desired  Sou  not  to  go  on  with  your  evidence?  A.  l  think  that  the  meaning  of  it.—Qt  iVhat  did  you  allude  to,  as  having  occurred  yesterday?  4.  It  letter  came  to  me  yesterday,  in  the  same  hand-writing,  desiring  an  inter interview.  view. interview.  The  writer  of  it  was  introduced  to  ate,  and  sail  he  had  been  in  2ny  company  at  the  Opera,  with  Sir  le.  Peat  and  a  ford  JVe  could  not  hear  the  name).  lie  wished  to  have  some  pri private  vate private  courersation  with  me,  asking  if  an'/  one  was  in  the  6fmk-room  aftio;ning  ?  I  opened  the  door  and  shewed  him  there  was  no  one  :  as  my  character  had  been  so  hacked  about,  he  might  not  hare  be beli,!ved  li,!ved beli,!ved  me.  Ile  then  questioned  me  if  h  had  any  motive  of  recen,Te  in  giving  my  evidence  ;  adding,  that  if  any  thin:  , STYLE=superscript  could  induce  me  to  abandon  the  country,  with  my  children,  I  should  be  handsomely  provided  The  Cll,tNeuLimn  of  the  ExctaxQuEn  moved,  that  William  Williams  he  forthwith  taken  ipto  custody  by  the  Setjeant  at  Arms.  This  was  unanimously  agreed  to.  Win.  Williams  was  then  broughrto  the  Bar,  and  interrogated  by  the  CHANCELLOR  of  the  EXCHEQUER.—Q.  Is  that  letter  in  your  hand-writing?  A.  Yes,  1  gave.  it  to  a  door-keeper  to  be  lelivered  to  Mrs.  Clarke.—Q.  What  was  your  business  with  Mrs.  Clarke,  that  induced'  you  to  write  that  letter  ?  A.  I  had  business  with  her,  but  it  had  no  reference  to  the  examination  now  going  on  ?—Q.  Were  you  at  Mrs.  Clarke's  house  yesterday  ?  A.  Not  yesterday,  but  the  day  after  she  was  examined  at  the  I:ar.—Q.  For  what  purpose  did  you  go  to  Mrs.  Clarke's  on  that  day  ?  A.  From  the  confidential  intereonrse  that  had  existed  between  her  and  a  high  personage,  I  thought  there  must  have  been  many  unreserved  communications  between  them,  in  certain  moments  ;  and  that  to  introduce  matters  of  this  sort  must  excite  his  resentment,  and  that  whatever  promises  of  protection  might  he  made  to  her,  she  might  not  be  protected  from  that  re resentment.s--Q.  sentment.s--Q. resentment.s--Q.  Who  advised  you  to  this  conversation  ?  A.  No  one  advised  it,  it  was  a  suggestion  of  my  own  mind.---  Q.  What  led  you  to  come  here  this  afternoon?  A.  I  was  anxious  to  see  her.--  Q.  Why  ?  A.  I  thought  if  1  had  an  opportunity  of  seeing  her,  after  I  had  been  with  an  agent  of  his  Royal  Highness;  that  probably  I  might  suggest  something  to  prevent  or  elucidate  the  investigation  now  going  on,  that  she  might  not  excite  in inveteracy.  veteracy. inveteracy.  Colonel  MACMAHON  said,  I  have  now  to  mention,  that  this  morning  an  anonymous  letter  was  sent  to  the  Royal  Person  - STYLE=superscript  whom  I  have  the  honour  of  serving,  stating,  that  the  writer  had  something  very  important  to  communicate,  and  requesting  a  per personal  sonal personal  interview.  I  called  at  14,  Bedford-row,  and  was  ushered  into  a  parlour  where  there  were  ten  chairs,  all  Morocco  concerns,  and  as  many  covers  for  dinner.  A  Lady  then  entered  the  room,  who  called  herself  Miss  Farquhar  ;  I  presented  the  note  to  her,  and  she  owned  it  was  her  Writing,  but  she  told.  me  she  would  communicate  nothing  but  on  a  personal  interview  with  the  Royal  Personage.  I  told  her  that  was  impossible,  unless  she  would  give  me  same  clue  to  conduct  me  to  the  nature  of  the  business.  She  then  introduced  a  conversation  tending  to  produce  blood  he het%ven  t%ven het%ven  tWo  Illustrious  Persons.  I  am  certain  that  the  House  rt  ill  not  permit  me  to  state  the  particulars,  hut  the  substance  Has,  that  the  greatest  enmity  subsisted  between  them,  which  1  am  quite  certain  is  unfounded  calumny.  1  told  her  so,  and  ex expressed,my  pressed,my expressed,my  entire  disbelief  of  what  she  had  said.  She  replied,  Oat  she  could  produce  letters  that  Would  skew  it.  I  told  her  I  supposed  she  was  acquainted  with  Mrs.  Clarke  ;  she  said  she  was  ;  on  filis  I  spoke  with  considerable  severity  of  that  Lady  ;  and  then  she  entered  into  such  a  variety  of  particulars,  that  I  observed  to  her,  Lbelieve  I  ;on  conversing  with  Mrs.  Clarke;  she  said  I  was;  upon  which  I  begged  her  pardon  for  the  freedom  I  had  taken  in  giving  such  a  picture  of  her  charac character.  ter. character.  She  said  she  forgave  hie  %  as  AIL  Adam  had  propagated  103  these  reports  of  her.  I  then  left  her,  telling  her  I  would  would  inform  his  Royal  lligline-s  of  w  hat  she  had  said  ;  I  did  so,  and  his  Royal  Highness  observed,  that  the  woman's  conduct  was  so  abominable,  he  would  have  nothing  to  say  her.  Mr.  C.  LONG  wished  to  say  a  few  W:;1%15.  Mrs.  Clarke  had  stated,  that  hi  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  York  had  told  beg  that  he  had  recommended  Mr.  Dowler  to  me  to  be  appointed  Assistant  Commis-ary,  and  that  I  had  acreed  that  it  shoull  he  settled  immediately.  To  the  best  of  my  recollection,  his  Itnal  Highness  never  mentioned  his  name  to  me,  and  I  never  saw  hint  till  he  camelto  the  Ear  of  this  llothe.  Mrs.  Clark  had  also  said,  that  the  Duke  of  York  had  shewim  aim  a  list  of  17  Members  who  would  vote  with  Mr.  Pitt,  and  that  I  was  delighted  with  it.  Now  I  declare  that  his  Royal  Highness  never  sheaved  tie  such  a  ISst  ;  and  if  some  of  them  were  in  the  habit  of  voting  on  the  other  side,  I  had  certainly  no  reason  to  be  delighted  with  them.  RE-EXAMINATION  OV  MRS.  CLARKE.  Interrogated  by  Mr.  Winn.—Q.  Did  you  make  any  appli application  cation application  on  the  subject  of,Dr.  O'Hara's  proposal  fur  a  Bishop Bishopric  ric Bishopric  ?  A.  Yes,  I  did,  and  I  rend  all  his  documents.—(a  laugh  )  Q.  What  was  the  answer  of  his  Royal  Highness  ?•A.  He  said  •  the  Doctor  had  preached  before  the  King,  but  his  .  Majesty  did  not  like  I  t  lle  oin  his  name.  I  never  mentioned  this  twany  otje  but  the  Doctor  himself.  Mr.  W  ARnt.E  then  called  Miss  Taylor•—Q.  Were  you  in  the  habit  of  visiting  Mrs.  Clarke  when  she  lived  in  Gloucester-14M%  under  the  protection  of  the  Duke  of  York  ?  A.  Frequently.---  Q.  Did  you  ever  hear  the  Duke  of  lurk  speak  to  Mrs.  Clarke  relativeto  Colonel  French  and  his  levy  ?  A.  Once.L—Q.  Relate.  •  what  passed  on  that  occasion  ?  A.  Mrs.  Clarke!),  'wads,  as  nearly  as  I  can  recollect,  were,  I'm  continually  worried  by  Colonel  French  about  the  levy  and  I  think  the  Duke  asked,  How  did  he  behave  to  you,  my  darling  or  some  such  words.  —Q.  Do  you  recollect  any  thing  further  having  been  them  stated.  A.  Mrs.  Clark  answered,  Middling  ,  not  very  well  .  that's  all  she  said.  The  Duke  said  , STYLE=superscript  Mr.  French  must  mind  •  what  he  is  about,  as  I  shall  cut  up  him  and  his  levy  that  was  the  expression.  Cross-examined  by  the  ATTORNEY  GENERAL.—HOW  long  have  you  known  Mrs.  Clarke?  A.  Ten  years.  I  don't  exactly  recollect;  it  may  be  inure.—  Q.  With  whom  do  youlive  ?  Witlt  my  sister.—Q.  Do  you  follow  any  profession  ?  A.  We  keep  a  boarding-school.  The  witness  was  ordered  to  withdraw.  Mr.  Donovan,  of  Charles-street,  St.  James's,  examined.  by  Mr.  SHErtillAN.—The  witness  admitted  that  application  had  been  made  by  several  persons  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  to  obtain  Church  preferment.  Ile  had  consulted  with  Mrs.  Clarke  in  behalf  of%  Mr.  Clavering,  to  obtain  a  Deanery  , STYLE=superscript  and  if  the  Deanery  had.  been  procured,  .‘4OOO/.  was  to  have  been STYLE=superscript  paid.  Koine  difficult  y  `  ,  Occurred  in  the  transaction,  and  Mrs.  Clarke  observed;  that  the  Duke  of  Portland  had  no  interest  of  late  in  Church  prefernient  ;  because  the  Queen  engrossed  the  whole  of  the  Church  patio•page.,  •  Witness  had  also  endeavoured  to  negotiate  the  Deanery  of  ford  for  the  Rev.  Mr.  Glasse,  but  without  success.  -  .  FRIDAY,  FRB.  10.  .  .  •  .  •  '  Mr.  BYNG  presented  a  Petition  from  the  Debtors  in  N  .  ewgate.  '  APPO  INTMENTS  IN  INDIA.  -  Mr.  C.  SMITH  moved  for  the  appaintinent  of  a  Select  Comte  mittee,  to  inquire  into  the  existence  of  any  corrupt:practices corrupt:practiceswith  with corrupt:practiceswith  reg  ard  to  the  appointment  or  nomination  , STYLE=superscript  of  w STYLE=superscript  r  i STYLE=superscript  s  ershi STYLE=superscript  p  s, STYLE=superscript  and  ca  detships  to  the  East-Indies,  or  to.any  agreemetit,mego.!  elation,  or  bargain  directly  or  indirectly,  for  the  sale  of  suck  appointments.---Agreed  to.  .  .  .  ..  ••  .  ,  .  THE  DUKE  OF  'YORK.  Mr.  WA  RDLE  produced  the  letters  from  Mr....  Donovan  ti  Mrs.  Clarke,  alluded  to  on  Thursday  evening,  and  wished  to'  . STYLE=superscript  know  whether  they  should  be  given.  in.  •  •  The  Letters  were  read  by  the  Clerk;  they  were  to  the  inflow.  , STYLE=superscript  ing  effect:—  .  r  '  Charles-street,  St.  James's-square,  Oct.'lB,  ISM'  My  dear  Madam---The  Deanery  of  1-leseferd  is  vacant,  ea  in  the  sole  gift  of  the  Duke-of  Portland;  Cain  you  'proemeq.  rot  the  Rev.  T.  11.  Glasse?  J  would  give  10  1 STYLE=superscript  001.;:m/selftolirnearti  it  for  him  without  his  knowledge.  1  anderstaiill  it  niustbellibill  '  up  on  Saturday  ;  1  can  confidently  ,assumyotsllot  be  Is  an  ele elegant  gant elegant  scholar,  a.  warm  friend,  and  a  Maria  good  fortuniond  .  fft  cellent  connections,  beiqg,well.kotnvn  to  Olt  Dukes.of,CuastiSirib  land  and  Cambridge.  The  money  Will  beiletesited  on:Westpub  day  next  for  the  Landing  .  Waiters  platef:the  . STYLE=superscript  salary  of  14.44  4 STYLE=superscript  i  '4OOl.  a-year,  acid  1000,1.  is.  °tiered  .  fki'  ii.  .  „s  . STYLE=superscript  •.  •  .  .  .  i.,3  .  •  .  ,  :  •  iSig  oo STYLE=superscript  ).  -  wit.  4 STYLE=superscript  .44  0 STYLE=superscript  1  0 STYLE=superscript  4c9f41i5a  t1 STYLE=superscript  ,  _  .  *I  •  •  ~;'  i  eo~+  :z,  ►  •  •  •  V  IP  P  i~r.  .6  '  P7_TB00018 ..•••  if  i1a1e71:1•:,  illill  f  I•li•  .1  111  UP  7. STYLE=superscript  ‘inj  1111.;11L,  JI,  Al  174.1,11117  f  %.,IIJICI:  Jllll  , STYLE=superscript  /,  Slllit.  lIIG  1•1111%.  •••  A  SOS  M.  ,••••-  ••••  .....  ••••••  ••  •-•  •  •-•••••••-•-•  him,e.•'  The  subitonce  of  it  was,  that  the  writer  was  anxious  who  would  vote  with  Mr.  l'itt:  •  and  that  I  t  eas  to  see  Ms.:.  Clarke  about  the  business  going  on  above  s  T  .stairs.  o  it.  Now  I  declare  that  his  R  what  (hi::  refr  ered  she  migh  t  t  rues,  but  it  would  be.  !el  i.,  ,, STYLE=superscript  hted  wi  c  h  osal  Highness  nev  (  er  s'llewed  Die  improper  to  such  a  hst  ;  and  if  some  of  them  were  in  the  habit  of  voting,  on  .  glance  at  it  fat  pap-  , STYLE=superscript  r.  Ts  /e  letter  concluded  with  begging  an  in.-  the  other  side,  I  had  certainly  no  reason  to  be  delighted  with  lataiiale  II  11Snt,l'  to  he  scat  to  the  Exchequer  ,  i  i; STYLE=superscript  he  M  w  letter  bring  read,  N.  Clarke  as  asked,  Was  this  the  an-EXAMINATION  0  l.'  MRS.  CLARKE.  letter  which,  ill  Your  ()pinion,  desired  3ou  not  to  go  on  with  them.  Interrogated  b  y  Mr.  Wi  a  I).—Q.  Did  you  make  any  appli-  1 STYLE=superscript  .'' STYLE=superscript  c'4  ' STYLE=superscript  '  ''' STYLE=superscript  ,  T  your  evidence  ?  A.  I  think  that  the  me  ling  of  it.—Qt  What  '-:  1  cation  on  the  suhject  of,Dr.  O'Hara  s  proposal  for  a  Bishop-  did  you  allude  to,  as  having  occurred  yesteralay  •  9 STYLE=superscript  ii.  A  feller  ►ric  ?,  A.  Yes,  I  did,  and  I  rend  all  his  documents.—(a  laugh  )  L.  came  to  me  yesterday,  in  the  same  hand-writin  ,, STYLE=superscript  desiring  an  inter-  r,  9 STYLE=superscript  Q.  W  hat  was  the  answer  of  his  Royal  Highness  ?•A.  He  said  •  f  view.  The  writer  of  it  was  introduced  to  me,  and  sai  , STYLE=superscript  l  he  had  the  Doctor  had  preached  before  the.  Kin*.  but  his  Majesty  did  filar,  been  in  2ny  company  at  the  Opera,  with  Sir  le.  Peat  and  a  ford  Oil  P.  (We  could  not  hear  the  name).  lie  wished  to  have  SO7ne  pri-  not  like  I  t  he  oin  his  name.  I  never  mentioned  this  to  ope  but  the  Doctor  himself.  1  vale  courersation  with  me,  asking  if  any  one  was  in  the  back-room  Mr.  W  A  a  nix,  then  called  Miss  Taylor•—Q.  Were  you  in  the  1,  .  1  1  .  ...  '‘ STYLE=superscript  N  .&#34;'  '  ': STYLE=superscript  '  '...4 STYLE=superscript  '  adjoining  I  I  opened  the  door  and  shewed  hill  there  was  no  one  :  habit  of  visitins.  Mrs.  Clarke  when  she  lived  in  Gloucester-pktces  as  my  character  had  been  so  hacked  about,  he  might  not  have  be-.  e,  li,!ved  me.  lie  then  questionedme  if  I  had  any  motive  of  reoeng.e  under  the  protection  of  the  Duke  of  York  ?  A.  Frequently.—  Q.  Did  you  ever  hear  the  Duke  of  lurk  speak  to  Mrs.  Clarke  in  giving  my  evidence  ;  adding,  that  if  any  thin:  , STYLE=superscript  could  induce  me  relative  to  Colonel  French  and  his  levy  ?  A.  Once.-  - STYLE=superscript  ---Q.  Rela,te.  •  to  abandon  the  country,  with  my  children,  I  should  be  handsomely  what  passed  on  that  occasion  ?  A.  Mrs.  Clarke!).  *wads,  as  provided  .for.  .  , STYLE=superscript  fi,  i:  nearly  as  I  can  recollect,  were,  I'm  continually  worried  by  The  CH  A  Neu  Lim  nof  the  ExctucstrEft  moved,  that  Wiillam  Colonel  French  about  the  levy  and  1  think  the  Duke  asked,  i,  •.  Williams  he  forthwith  taken  ipto  custody  by  the  Setjeant  kl,  •  .1  1' STYLE=superscript  llow  did  he  behave  to  .  you,  my  darling  or  some  such  words.  at  Arms.  This  was  unanimously  agreed  t0..i.5.-  -Q.  Do  you  recollect  any  thing  further  having  been  them  .  A-.  Win.  Williams  was  then  broughrto  the  Bar,  and  interrogated  stated.  A.  Mrs.  Clark  answered,  Middling,  not  very  well  ;'  t STYLE=superscript  .  '  1  '  by  the  CDA  NCELLOR  of  the  LXCIIEQUER.—Q.  Is  that  letter  that's  all  she  said.  The  Duke  said,  Mr.  French  must  mind  •  in  3  our  haul-writing?  A.  Yes,  - STYLE=superscript  1  gave.  it  to  a  door-keeper  to  •  ~,  he  is  about.  as  I  shall  cut  up  him  and  his  levy  coo  that  '•  be  lelivered  to  Mrs.*Clarke.—Q.  What  was  your  business  with  1 STYLE=superscript  s  •.I  s  .  was  the  expression.  Mrs.  Clarke,  that  induced'  you  to  write  that  letter  ?  A.  I  had  r!  .  long  t  4  business  with  her,  but  it  had  no  reference  to  the  examination  Cross-examined  by  the  ATTORNE  Y  •BEN  ER  A  L.--HOW  .  ;,4!!,  41••••  have  you  known  Mrs.  Clarke?  A.  Ten  years.  I  don't  exactly  •  now  going  on  ?—Q.  Were  you  at  Mrs.  Clarke's  house  yesterday  ?-'•  ~s.  W  recollect;  it  may  be  inure  .  -  Q.  With  whom  do  youlive  ?  Witlt  4-  A'  A.  Not  yesterday,  but  the  day  after  she  was  examined  at  the‘  ';,-,'  my  sister.—Q.  Do  vou  follow  any  profession  ?  A.  We  keep  a  Lar.—Q.  For  what  purpose  did  you  go  to  Mrs.  Clarke's  i  •  -  V  1  1  on  that  day  ?A.  From  the  confidewial  interconrse  that  had  boardinw-school.  The  witness  was  ordered  to  withdraw.  .  J  •  .4s  . STYLE=superscript  Mr.  boarding,-school.  of  Charles-street,  St.  James  s,  examined  by  existed  between  her  and  a  high  personage,  I  thought  there  must  Mr.  SHERIDA  N.—The  witness  admitted  that  application  hat%  have  been  many  unreserved  communications  between  them,  in  been  made  by  several  persons  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  to  obtain  Church  .  1  :..-1,!  certain  moments;  and  that  to  introduce  matters  of  this  sort  must  preferment.  Ile  had  consulted  with  Mrs.  Clarke  in  behalf  of  it  •  .  i  ,.,  excite  his  resentment,  and  that  whatever  promises  of  protection  1  ,  r  s  i  Mr.  Clavering,  to  obtain  a  Deanery,  and  if  the  Deanery  ,had  ~,  might  he  made  to  her,  she  might  not  be  protected  from  that  re-  been  procured.  S4OOO/.  was  to.  have  been  paid.  SOMe  ,  .  ss.  sentment.s.-Q.  Who  advised  you  to  this  conversation  ?—.  -V,  • STYLE=superscript  ;  -  Occurred  in  the  transaction,  :  t  ad  Mrs.  Clarke  observed  ,  that  the  -..  i  ,  *  ~,  A.  No  .  one  advised  it,  it  was  a  suggestion  of  my  own  mind.---  Duke  of  Portland  had  no  interest  of  late  in  Church  prefernien4  1 STYLE=superscript  '  .  •.  -  •  .  1 STYLE=superscript  '  '  Q.  What  led  you  to  come  here  this  afternoon  ?  A.  I  was  anxious  fg STYLE=superscript  to  see  her.--  Q.  Why  ?A.  I  thought  if  I  had  an  opportunity  of  b;ause  the  Queen  engrossed  the  whole  of  the  Chureh  patiopages  '  •  .  fitness  had  also  endeavoured  to  negotiate  the  Deanery•of  fibre-  ..--  ,  .  k  - STYLE=superscript  -  , STYLE=superscript  ;-  ..  4  1  ,  seeing  her,after  I  had  been  with  an  agent  of  his  Royal  Highness;  ,ss!  ford  for  the  Rev.  Mr.  Glasse,  but  without  success.  :'  '  -..  •..  Ii•  .  4  t'.  that  probably  I  might  suggest  something  to  prevent  or  elucidate  the  investigation  FRIDAY,  FED.  10.  now  going  on,  that  she  might  not  excite  in-•  •  •  '  -  .  ..  •  s  •  '  I  •'/.  veteracs.  ,,.....  •:.  ,  ,  s  Mr.  BYNG  presented  a  Petition  from  the  Debtors  in  Newgate.  °;,-;.  i STYLE=superscript  iii•  Colonel  MACM  A.  lION  said,  I  have  now  to  mention,  that  this  morning  an  anonymous  letter  was  sent  to  the  Royal  Person  - STYLE=superscript  whom  I  have  the  honour  of  serving,  stating,  that  the  writer  bad  something  very  important  to  communicate,  and  requesting  a  per-&#34;'  mittees  bonal  interview.  I  called  at  14,  Bedford-row,  and  was  ushered  into  a  parlour  where  there  were  ten  chairs,  all  Morocco  concerns,  and  as  many  covers  for  dinner.  A  Lady  then  entered  the  room,  who  called  - STYLE=superscript  herself  Miss  Farquhar  ;  I  presented  the  note  to  her,  appointments.---Agreed  and  she  owned  it  was  her  Writing,  but  she  told  me  she  would  MENTS  IN  INDIA.  -  Mr.  C...9.strrn  moved  for  the  appaintinept  of  a  Select  Comte  .  .  -  Y  )  f  .  .  A  . STYLE=superscript  to  inquire  into  the  existence  of  any  corrupt  :  practicer  ._  l' STYLE=superscript  '  '.  ''''''.  with  regard  to  the  appointment  or  nomination,  of  writership,  and  cadetships  to  the  East-Indies,  ec  to.aay  agreement,  xtego..!  elation,  or  bargain  directly  or  indirectly,  for  the  sale  of  suck  .  ::  THE  DUKE  OF  'YORK.  .  e  .  --1  ..  ,:.  ,!  '•  :,  4  .  communicate  nothing  but  on  a  personal  interview  with  the  Royal  Mr.  WA  RDLE  produced  the  letters  from  Me  :.Donavan  ter  .  Personage.  I  told  her  that  was  impossible,  unless  she  would  Mrs.  Clarke,  alluded  to  on  Thursday  evening,  and  wished  to,  :  -  .  ,  •  .  `e  give  me  some  clue  to  conduct  me  to  the  nature  of STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  business. STYLE=superscript  know STYLE=superscript  whether STYLE=superscript  they STYLE=superscript  should STYLE=superscript  be STYLE=superscript  given.in. STYLE=superscript  ?  4  ,  i  •-  She  then  introduced  a  conversatiOA  tending  to  pr  odu STYLE=superscript  c  e STYLE=superscript  blosid STYLE=superscript  be- STYLE=superscript  The STYLE=superscript  Letters STYLE=superscript  were STYLE=superscript  read STYLE=superscript  by STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  Clerk; STYLE=superscript  they STYLE=superscript  were  to  . STYLE=superscript  the  &amp;now.  , STYLE=superscript  1  ..  .  .  '  •  '  '  •  f  '  ''.  ..  tween  ta'so  Illustrious  Persons.  I  am  certain  that  the  House  ing  effect:---  s•  'ss  ill  not  permit  me  to  state  the  particulars,  hut  the  substance  Charles-street,  St.  James's-square,  Oct.'lB,  ISM  •  .  Has,  that  the  greatest  enmity  subsisted  between  them,  which  I  My  dear  Madam---The  Deanery  of  Her:fad  is  vacant,  la  ,  !.4  .  :  .  t  am  quite  certain  is  unfounded  calumny.  1 STYLE=superscript  told STYLE=superscript  her STYLE=superscript  so, STYLE=superscript  and STYLE=superscript  ex- STYLE=superscript  in STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  sole STYLE=superscript  gift STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  Duke-of STYLE=superscript  Portland,  Cain  you  procure'  it  ,  1 STYLE=superscript  :  1,  , STYLE=superscript  ;  pressed,my  entire  disbelief  of  what  she  had  s  aid. STYLE=superscript  She STYLE=superscript  re STYLE=superscript  p  lied, STYLE=superscript  roe STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  Rev. STYLE=superscript  T. STYLE=superscript  H. STYLE=superscript  Glasse? STYLE=superscript  I STYLE=superscript  would  give  10001..tayselftoltrorarig  i.;  that  she  could  produce  letters  that  Would  skew  it.  I  told  her  it  for  him  without  his  knowledge.  •  I  onderstaiiil  ittnustbelliMP  -•  - STYLE=superscript  •'r.  .  I  supposed  she  was  acquainted  with  ,Mrs.  Clarke  ;  she  said  'up  on  Saturday  ;  I STYLE=superscript  can STYLE=superscript  confidentl STYLE=superscript  y  ,axsuirmytarthat  be  Is  an  de-  .  she  was  :  on  fibs  I  spoke  with  considerable  severity  of STYLE=superscript  that STYLE=superscript  ga  ga STYLE=superscript  scholar, STYLE=superscript  e  .warm STYLE=superscript  friend, STYLE=superscript  and STYLE=superscript  a  parte  good  fortuneopdApp  •  .  ~  • STYLE=superscript  ,,;;7  Z STYLE=superscript  ,..ei;  -,Nr‘  .  .'..,44,0,:  Lady  •;  and  then  , STYLE=superscript  he  entered  into  such  a  'variety  of  particulars,  cellent  connections,  beittg,well.knQwn  to  Olt  Dnes  . STYLE=superscript  of.Cll  o STYLE=superscript  46  l STYLE=superscript  l,rib  that  I  observed  to  her,  I.  Jielieve  Imu  conversing  with  Mrs.  land  and  Cambridge.  The  moue?'  Will  be  - STYLE=superscript  40401qt;  oa  - STYLE=superscript  1,  1 STYLE=superscript  1  ...  3  .  lk  „.•:i  ,r.  -4,  ~  Clarke;  she  said  I  was  ;  upon  which  I  begged  her  pardon  for  day  next  for  the  Landing  .  Waiters  platef:the  salary  of  til  ~.  1  4,-  ~„•  I  -  the  freedom  I  had  taken  in  giving  such  a  picture  Ober  charge-  .. STYLE=superscript  41)(,)/.  alear,  aad  10011,4  ii  offered  .  fAr  i).  .;  .  ,  ;43  .  •41  rq STYLE=superscript  i  ter.  She  said  she  forgave  nie  k  as  Alt.  Adam  had  mpagated  f  .  .  ,  .  •A,Sig4  o STYLE=superscript  ).  -  wit.  Atpen9r4ziesai  :.  .•  .  ~  ....  •  .:  .  .  -  ',,,,...  -t  ,, STYLE=superscript  ,  , STYLE=superscript  k,,  1,  %,.:5i"
