text
"THE  NATIONA4,  REGISTER.  _  .  two  o'clock.  The  town  of  Madrid  ought  to  look  fur  protection  and  security  for  its  peaceable  inhabitants  ;  fur  its  Ministers,  in  line,  the  oblivion  of  the  past.  Hoist  a  white  flag  before  two  o'clock,  and  send  Commissioners  to  treat  fur  ;he  !urrender  of  the  town.--Accept,  Monsieur  General,  &amp;c.  Major-General  M  e  t:i  t  1411111  J  En.  FIFTEENTH  BuLtaym  OF  Tilt:  ARMY  OF  SPAIN.  Madrid,  Dee.  Pt.  Ins  Majesty  has  named  the  General  of  Artillery,  Sonarmont,  11  General  of  Division.  The  Major  Legur  leis  been  named  Actin-  I;  tant  Commandant.  The  life  of  this  Officer  had  been  de  :paired  1  of,  but  he  is  now  out  of  danger.  The  Count  Krazinski,  Colonel  1  of  the  Polish  Light  Horse,  thoogli  ill,  has  alwa)s  wished  to  I  charge  at  the  head  of  his  eorps.  The  Sieurs  Itabeeki  and  NV  ol  -  1  gurski,  QuartersNlasters,  and  Sarzevski,  a  soldier  of  the  Polish  Light  Horse,  who  have.  taken  standards  from  the  enemy,  hat  been  named  Members  of  the  Legion  of  Honour.  His  Mej  e STYLE=superscript  M  f STYLE=superscript  has  moreover  granted  to  the  Polish  Light  Horse  eight  dt.•e•erat  jons  for  the  Officers,  and  4;  untey  for  Atte  soldiers.  The  Chief  of  Squadron,  Lubiensici,  recon  n  oitred  ea  ate,  second,  the  remain,  of  the  army  of  Castangs,  near  Guailalaxara.  They  were  under  the  command  of  General  Pena.  Castanos  was  said  to  have  tbeen STYLE=superscript  de deposed  posed deposed  by  the  Geecral  Junta,  The  Duke  of.  Itifantado  has  been  one  of  the  principal  causes  of  the  misfortunes  his  has  suffered  he  w4s  the  principal  instrument  in  EOgland,  in  its  lanieutahle  progress  against  Spain;  it  was  he  who  was  employed  by  that  country  to  cause  dissensions  hetween  the  fattier  and  the  son—to  overturq  the  throne  of  Charles,  whose  attachment  to  France  was  known-to  excite  outrages  against  the  first  Minister  or  that  Sovereign—to  elevate  to  the  Supreme  Power  that  young  Priuce,  who,  by  his  marriage  with  a  Princess  of  the  ancient  Jlouse  of  Naples,  had  drank  that  hatred  against  the  French,  from  which  that  Boise  had  never  departed.  It  was  the  Duke  of  Infanta°  who  played  the  principal  part  in  the  coespiracy  of  the  Escurial,  and  it  was  to  him  that  the  power  of  Generalissimo  of  the  Armies  of  Spain  was  confided:at  that  time.  lie  was  after afterwards  wards afterwards  been  taking  the  oath  ofallegiauce  at  Bayonne  between  the  bands  of  King  Joseph,  as  Colonel  of  the  Spanish  Guards.  On  his  retorts  to  Madrid,  we  saw  him  throw  qff  the  masque,.  and  chew  himself  °peaky  the  man  of  the  English.  I  t STYLE=superscript  was  4)110  house  that  the  Ministers  of  England  were  lodged;  it  was  lift  his  society  that  the  agents  accredited  and  secret  of  that  Poster  lived.  After  having  exhorted  his  fellow-citizens  to  a  mad  resistance,  he  was  seen,  with  a  cowardice  equal  to  his  treason,  kin?  . STYLE=superscript  flan  Madrid  to  Guadalaxara,  under  the  pretext  of  goi  n STYLE=superscript  g  to  b  ring  reinforce reinforcements,  ments, reinforcements,  withdrawing  himself  by  this  stratagem  from  the  dangers  iuto  which  he  had  drawn  his  fellowscitiaeuss,  and  shewiug  no  anxiety  except  for  the  English  Agent,  whom  be  carried  off  in  his  own  carriage,  and  whom  he  served  for  an  escort,  And  what  will  he  gain  by  this  conduct?  Ile  will  lose  his  titles,  hisproperty  valued  at  2,000,00  Q  of  livres  a  year,  and  he  will  go  to  London,  to  seek  the  contempt,  the  disdain,  and  ingratitude  with  which  Lug Luglaud  laud Luglaud  has  always  rewarded  the  men  who  sacrifice  their  humour  and  their  country  to  the  itdustice  of  her  cause.  Every  day  contributes  to  dissipate  the  remains  of  the  stupor  into  which  the  inhabitants  of  Madrid  had  fhltrn.  '1  bust  who  had  concealed  their  moveables  and  precious  e*cts,  are  !triaging  them  back  to  their  houses,  Their  shops  are  furnished  as  in  or ordinary  dinary ordinary  times.  The  barricades,  and  all  the  other  preparations  of  defence,  have  disappeared.  The  taking  possession  of  Madrid  has  been  executed  without  disorder,  and  tranquillity  nips  in  all  parts  of  that  town.  A  foileer  of  the  Guard  having  been  Cultic'  with  a  number  of  watches  upon  hint,  and  being  convicted  or  having  stolen  them,  has  been  shot  in  the  principal  place  of  Madrid.  We  have  found  in  that  city  200,000  ponuds  weight  of  powder;  10,000  balls  ;  2.000,000  pouted  weight  of  lead  ;  10 STYLE=superscript  D  pieces  of  field  artillery  ;  c..nd  MAO  muskets,  mostly  English.  The  disarming,  continues  without  any  difficulty,  all  the  inhabi inhabitants  tants inhabitants  enuform  to  it  with  the  greatest  willingness  ;  they  return  with  eagerness  and  good  faith  to  the  royal  authority  which  rescues  them  from  the  mischievous  influence  of  England,  from  the  violence  of  factions  *  and  the  disorders  of  popular  move  meats.  The  King  of  Spain  has  created  a  regiment  which  hears  the  name  of  the  Royal  into  which  are  admitted  the  deserters  and  the  Germans  who  were  in  the  service  of  Spain.  lie  has  also  fanned  a  Swiss  regiment,  called  that  of  Reding  the  T  onager,  that  Officer  haviag  coadneted  himself  like  a  real  Swim  Patriot,  and  ia  a  mapper  very  different  from  General  Reding.  The  one  has  deserved  well  from  his  countrymen,  and  viill  every  where  obtain  esteem;  the  other,  gene  r STYLE=superscript  a  ll STYLE=superscript  y  despised,  will  go  to  the  taverns  of  London  to  enjoy  a  pension  of  some  hoadreds  of  run&amp;  S  tetling,  badly  earned,  and  plid  wktb  digtaiP.  d  ie  -  -  emigrate  from  the.  Coutinotit.  Elto  regimmis  of  Royal  Fo Forciglu  rciglu Forciglu  and  Reding  the  Younger,  consist  already  of  mauy  thou thoustoki4  stoki4 thoustoki4  wet,.  The  sth  and  SO  carp'  of  the  Army  .  of  Spain,  and  three  divi division,:  sion,: division,:  of  eavalrN  .  are  but  pacing  the  Bitidasoa  ;  they  are  yet  very  far  front  boin  in  tine,  and  yet  a  great  litany  vietoriet4  have  been  obtained,  anti  the  greatest  part  of  the  businuss  is  done.  SIN.TI:!.1  • STYLE=superscript  11  RC.  I.LETIN  TIIF.  ARM  V  01.'  SPAIN.  NI  An  ttt  it,  1)  t:r.  S.—The  Duke  of  Montebello  bestows  much  praise  on  the  conduct  of  the  tieneral  of  Brigade,  Poitzet,  in  the  battle  of  Tuticia;  on  that  of  Cieuerals  Lefebvre,  of  the  limier:ll  of  Brigade  of  Artillery  Couin,  :tad  also  On  that  of  his  Aid-de Aid-decamp,  camp, Aid-decamp,  G  otw  noc,  w  ho  was  ttuundtrcl  ,  Ile  tnaLes  particular  mention  of  three  regiments  from  the  Vistula.  fioneral  of  Ilris  gad.-  A  itgeratt,  ho  chaired  at  the  head  of  the  di  vit?  Mu  of  1i  orbit,  frtstiognlshed  himself.  ''1%1  . STYLE=superscript  :  iry  and  Labetloyerc  took,  a  piece  of  artillery  iti  the  midst  of  the  enemy's  line.  latter  wa%  slightly  wottotied  itt  the  arm.  llis  .Majesty  teas  nominated  Col.  Pepin,  General  of  Brigade,  and  the  Polish  Major  KIM  i,  Voiotia.  The  Polish  Colonel  Kasinottski,  who  was  wounded,  Ims  he  ap appointed  pointed appointed  a  Member  of  the  Legion  of  Illinois.  Fallio,  freer  :1  of  Division,  having  passed  the  Tagus  at  A  raictuew.,  pushed  on  to  Ocana,  oad  cut  off  the  retreat  of  the  remain;  (achris)  of  the  :witty  of  Andalusia,  who  were  retiring  to  Andalusia,  and  who,  being  frustrated  in  their  design,  have  thrown  themselves  upon  Cuenca.  •  The  divisions  of  cavalry  under  General  Lasalle  and  Meihtaud,  have  directed  their  march  for  l'ortugra.  sty  Talavera  de  la.  Relna.  The  Duke  of  Datitzic  arrivett  this  day  at  Nlialwiti  wills  his  division  of  the  army.  .Marshal  Ney,  w  ith  hi,  divilzion,  reached  floadalaxara,  routing  from  Starago,.a.  The  6th  division  has  entered  Spain.  Getwral  Delaborde  is  about  to  rotiblialt  hi  head-quarters  at  Yittoria.--The  Polish  Uiviiion,  muter;  the  order  of  General  Valtnce,  arrived  !hi  , STYLE=superscript  day  at  Buil  rNo.  The  Emlish  are  retreating  on  all  ides.  The  ti  iv  I,ittit  of  Lasalle  bas  e  however.  fallen  in  w  ills  iS  men,.  whom  they  have  put  to  the  swurd.—They  were  Atragglets,  or  men  'ho  had  lost  their  way,  Marshal  Nlortier  will  arrive  on  the  Itith  in  Cant Cant/oaks,  /oaks, Cant/oaks,  to  turn  the  enemy's  army,  and  to  form  a  jutiction  4414  the  Generals  litshesnie  and  St,.  Cyr.  On  tke  0(1  of  November,  the  breach  in  the  Castle  of  Trialty  of  ttsC  city  o  f  Nosas  was  found,  on  atproachiwg  it,  to  be  prae•  tieable.  On  the  same  day,  the  English  bolded  40U  men  at  the  foot  of  the.  Castle.  A  battalion  of  Italians  marched  agaiust.  them,  kil  l  ltd  ten  plea,  woonded  :shove  that  omober,  and  drover  the  rest  into  the  sea,  Aloud  thirty  vessels  were  observed  to  oonte  ost,  ofthe  harboot  of  ttosas,  which  iidncedtti  belief  that  the  in inhabitants  habitants inhabitants  had  hrgam  to  evacuate  the  lowa.  Ott  the  t,9lh,  tlif  advanced  guairel  of  Alto  enesoy  encamped  on  the  Flutist,  evosiAt  ;is  qltabout  Ave.  o*  six  thousand  own,  commanded  by  ti,;mere!  Al Al•  • Al•  va  rea,  came  its  sevecal  cannons,  to  attack  the  r  °4s  of  Navatta,,  Aeon*,  A  remdas,  and  Garrigas,  occupied  by  (-several  Soubutniu  division.  The  Ist  mid  4th  legiasents  of  light  infantry,  were  alone  opposed  to  the  ~my,  sustained  the  attack  with  uneotannott  titan titanotis,  otis, titanotis,  and  &amp;sally  put  them  to  ;Sight.  The  enemy  has  been  re repulsed  pulsed repulsed  oo  the  other  side  of  the  Mafia  vi  ith  considerable.  loss  its.  killed:tad  wouutled,  Several  prisoners  Lave  been  nt;tle,  am  . STYLE=superscript  °  og  whoa  are  Colonel  Le  Bran%  the  serood  in  command  of  the  ex expedition,  pedition, expedition,  sod  Cat  uel  of  the  regiment  itf  Tarragona,.  Wild  the  Major  aad  a  Captain  of  that  regiment.  41t,C411!  THE  GorriNsURGH"
