text
"130  THE  NATION  .  Tuesday,  Feb  :  28.  Mr.  P.  MonitE  presented  a  Petition  from  the  Debtors  con confined  fined confined  in  the  Jail  of  Giweatry.  pra)  in;;  relief.  On  the  motion  of  the  LORD  A  ovocATE  of  Scort.A.No,  the  Bill  for  amen.ling  the  lawo  as  to  child  tutmler  in  Scotla  n  d  was  read  a  seco,ci  time,  and  after  a  few  words  from  Sir  S.  Itomill  v,  expressing  a  hope  That  lime  should  be  given  to  consider  the  Bill,  which  introluced  an  important  alteration  into  the  Law  of  Scot Scotland,  land, Scotland,  the  I:ill  was  committed  for  this  day  sennight.  Mr.  BA  NKs  then  moved,  that  as  J.  Alines  Shee,  alias  Cal Calvert,  vert, Calvert,  had  been  guilty  of  grosS  prevarication,  and  had  afterwards  :absconded,  in  (tiller  ton%  oid  being  taken  into  custoly,  he  should  be  committed  to  Newgate,  and  that  the  Keeper  of  Newgate  he  required  to  bring  him  tip  before  11R;  topini  t  tee  from.  time  to  time,  us  required.---4  hese  itesOlu  limb  were  agreed  to.  •  WIEDOWS  OF  NAVAL  OFFICERS.  __-.  .•  .  •  INTr  r  .gi.t.i..l.T.  - STYLE=superscript  Er  Pol.E  rose  to  move  for  leave  to  bring  is  a  11ill  for  'Mein:ore  easy  pax  meta  of  the  Pensions  to  the  Widows  of  Navy  (Hikers..  The  rood  wao  in  a  very  flourishing-state,  and  had  been  aide  to  invest  173.000/.  in  the  three  per  cents.  and  it  was  propwed  in  consequence  to  increase  the  pensions  to  the  widows,  no-that  the  highest  should  he  SU  a  ear,  the  next  TO/.  and  so  iu  trreporting.  These  pensions  had  hitherto  been  only  payable  in  e  9udon,  and  the  object  of  toe  Bill  was  that  they  should  now  he  paid  to  the  w  Wows  at  the  different  plae!.s  of  their  abode,  in  the  same  was'  as  to  the  widows  of  .Mililary  Oliceri.  It  was  also  proposed  that  these  pensions  should  lie  pi:  id  quarterly.  Another  object  of  the  Bill  was,  to  pay  retired  Marine  Officers  their  half-pay  tit  their  own  habitations.  Ile  would  also  state,  that  the  Lord;  of  the  Admiralty  had  it  in  contemplation  to  establish  a  compassionatp  list  for  the  Navy,  similar  to  that  which  cx  i  titer!  for  the  army.  The  lionnu  ruble  Member  then  concluded  with  moving  for  leave  to  bring  in  a  Bill  of  the  nature  which  ha;  been  already  stated.  After  a  short  conversation,  fn  which  Sir  C.  Pole  and  Mr.  Caleraft  took  a  part,  expressiug  their  appro approbation  bation approbation  of  tile  proposed  measure,  leave  was  granted  accordingly.  Lord  Fo  LicsToNE  rose  to  mode  that  the  House  he  called  over  on  Wednesday,  the  Bth  of  March,  the  day  appointed  for  taking  jot°  cousideration  the  evidence  on  the  charges  against  the  Duke  or  York.  Considering  the  importance  of  the  busitmss  which  wound  then  come  before  the  House,  and  the  obvious  propriety  tlero  gas  that  the  atteodaqee  of  members  khould  be  as  full  as  jiossibl  , STYLE=superscript  ..  he  did  not  conceive  that  there  could  be  any  uttjection  to  the  nro  ion.  After  some  observations  from  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exehe  A  u  je  and  Mr.  Minks,  a  div  ision  took  place,  arcs  there  appeared  for  the  moiion,--Ayes  102  I  Noes  13  I  Majority  87.  DUKE.  Of'  YORK'S  LETTrit.  'fir.  NV  1.41.:  rose  to  observe,  that  in  thc  letter  which  The  Duke  of  York  had  been  ablvi,te  tti  send  to  that  Ilimse,  it  ap appeared  peared appeared  to  him  there  was  one  paragraph  which  lutist  ho  consideyed  vs  a  breach  of  the  privileges  of  that  Ilmise.  Ile  therefore  now  e.  aye  Notice.  that  on  Months)  , STYLE=superscript  se'onight  he  511011  id  submit  a  rteco rtecolutio:!,  lutio:!, rtecolutio:!,  io  coo-  , STYLE=superscript  equenee  of  a  paragraph  of  the  letter  - STYLE=superscript  tyhich  his  Highnits,  the  Doke  of  York  had  been  advised  to  addres.,  to  the  'loose.  The  A  N  I,  1.0  It  of  the  Foccrtrqtfrltt  Mild  not  help  think thinkintr.  intr. thinkintr.  it  mich  name  fair  . STYLE=superscript  to  o  ihatitsod,  a  resolution  pre‘  ions  to,  'pan  ;Liter  the  decision.  It  was  not  fair  t  perwit  st  ch  a  rge  to  liatir  over  the  brad  of  hig  Royal  Highne.*  as  if  there  had  been  a  princely  interference  on  his  rat  inconsistent  with  flu,  privileges  of  Parliament.  Mr.  PoNSONfir  then  said,  that  he  had  two  questions  to  put  to  the  Right  lion.  Secretary  opposite,  whom  he  saw  in  his  place,  upon  subjects  which  came  ithin  his  department  ;  the  first  was,  whether  the  Treaty  between  this  country  and  Sweden  had  been  roucluded,  and  whether  the  ratification  of  it  had  been  received  ?  The  second  question  was,  whether  the  British'  force,  which  hail  been  sent  from  Lisbon  to  Cadiz,  had  been  refused  admission  inti  that  town,  as  had  been  reported  ?  l‘lr.  Secretary  CA  NNYNG  believed  that  the  treaty  with  Sweden  had  been  concluded,  but  that  the  ratification  had  not  vet  reached  this  country  ;  and,  in  answer  to  the  second  question  of  the  Right  lion.  Member,  he  could  only  state,  that,  in  point  of  fact,  he  way  ;  not  infiqmed  of  the  truth  of  the  report  to  which  the  night  Hon.  Cen.leman  alluded.  The  House  then  •went  into  a  Committee  upon  the  Corn  Distil.  lery  Pro  hibiti  on  Several  alllCHtilllClltS  were  agreed  la,  and  the  report  was  received.  Mr.'  Secretary  CA  NNIN  C  r  then  alluded  to  some  observation,  which  had  been  made  on  the  former  evening  by  an  Hon.  Members  whom  he  did  not  see  in  his  place  (Mr.  W.  Smith)  respecting  Sicily.  The  flight  Hon.  Seeretai)  regretted  that  they  had  been  made  at  all,  as  they  were  only  calculated  to  excite.lealousy  and  suspicion  between  the  tlvo  countriel,  '  lie  then  stated,  that  the  most  Friendly  understanding  existed  betwOn  this  country  and  the  Sicilian  Government,  and  between  their  . STYLE=superscript  respeciive  troops.  Hod  •  also  added,  in  confirmation  of  that  fact,  that  the  King  of  the  two  Sicilies  was  inclined  to  intrust  the  command  of  his  army  to  the  Commander  of  the  British  troops,  which  was  amlustance  confidence  rarely  shewn  by  any  foreign  power  towards  another."
