text
"66 STYLE=superscript  most  heartily  coincided,  with  what  had  just  fallen  from  . STYLE=superscript  his  Noble  and  Learned  friend  upon  the  THURSDA  FEB.  9.  •  •  The  Report  of  Lord  Boringdon's  Divorce  Bill  was  received,  and  the  Standing  Order  being  suspended,  the  Bill  was  read  a  third  time,  and  ordered  to  the  Commons.  The  Earl  of  MOIR  t,  pursuant  to  his  notice,  rose  to  move  the  appointment  of  a  Committee  to  consider  of  the  State  of  the  Laws  relative  t*  Debtor  and  Creditor.  Mis  Lordship  pointed  out  the  evils  which,  in  his  opinion,  attach  to  the  present  system;  and  observed,  that  it  was  not  his  intention  to  propose  that  the  power  of  arrest  should  he  altogether  done  away,  but  he  wished  to  re recommend  commend recommend  the  ancient  practice  of  the  Law,  which  was,  first  to  summon  the  debtor,  before  his  person  could  be  seizeti.  lie  then  moved  the  appointment  of  a  Committee,  to  consist  °fall  the  Lords  who  have  attended  during  the  present  Session;  which  was  agreed  to  nem.  di,;.--Adjourned.  FRIDAY,  FFn.  10.  AMEILICA.  The  Earl  of  Mom  presented  a  Petition  in  behalf  of  tl-e  Pri Prisoners  soners Prisoners  confined  in  the  Gaols  of  Liverpool'.  Lord  A  yet:  t.  s  n  moved,  that  there  be  laid  before  the  House  an  Account  of  the  Imports  and  Exports  of  Ireland  s  for  the  last  three  years,  as  far  as  the  same  could  he  male  up.  Also,  an  Account  of  the  Imports  into  Ireland  from  America,  and  the  Exports  to  Atnerica  from  Ireland,  avid  of  the  principle  articles  chiefly  imported  and  ex  virteti  during  the  same  period.  Lord  Acc  KLAN  n  had  another  motion  to  [mike.  The  object  of  it  would  he,  to  have  laid  on  the  table  of  the  House  whatever  accounts  of  the  proceedings  of  the  American  Government  and  Congress,  which  may  base  been  transmitted  to  his  Majesty's  Alinisters,  by  the  British  Minister  in  America.---Ailjourned.  110UsE  OF  COMMONS.  MONDIY,  r1,:11.  6.  curcr  I,RY  zitr,T.tNn.  Mr.  WHITBREAD  paid  some  handsome  compliments  to  the  military  talents  and  eminent  services  of  the  Itig  - STYLE=superscript  ht  Hon.  General  in  the  field,  and  at  the  same  time  declared  his  inost  per perfect  fect perfect  conviction  of  his  fitness  to  till  the  office  of  Chief  Secretor)  for  Ireland;  but  as  he  could  nut  be  both  in  Portufral  and  at  Dublin  at  the  same  time,  and,  in  his  opinion,  the  a  tiice  of  Chief  :...ecretary  in  Ireland  was  an  efficient  o!lice,  he  ought  not  to  have  been  paid  for  the  services  of  it,  when  there  was  no  po-sibility  of  his  executing  . STYLE=superscript  them.  He  had  no  objection  to  the  MO(  lion.  General  being  paid  for  his  services.  a  3  otlicer,  but  he  con  ceived  he  ought  not  to  have  been  paid  for  duties  which  it  was  clear  he  ccfdd  not  execute.  Sir  Artint  NVE.:LLEsir.vr  said,  that  the  real  and  sole  motive  he  had  for  remaining  in  oqice  while  he  W  0  em  plowed  abcoad  waf.,  that  it  was  the  wi,:h  of  the  Noble  Iler  , STYLE=superscript  on  at  the  head  of  the  Irish  Government  that  hey  sh  lt:  l  4  L.  A  l  la  in  regard  to  the  emoluments  of  that  ()thee,  he  bepx.l  leave  to  ob observe,  serve, observe,  that  though  they  were  large,  as  large  as  those  of  offices  of  more  importance,  yet  there  were  expences  attached  to  the  of office  fice office  of  Chief  Secretary  of  Ireland,  w  hich  did  not  so  peculiarly  fall  on  the  i.ecretaries  of  State  in  En::land.  The  Right  lion.  General  concluded  with  observing,  that  50  long  as  the  MI  hle  Duke  at  the  head  of  the  Government  in  Ireland  did  not  think  proper  to  vacate  the  appointment,  he  felt  himself  bound  to  keep  up  his  c  , STYLE=superscript  tabli-liments  there,  which  he  could  not  have  done  had  he  relinquish:A  the  emoluments  of  the  office.  Mr.  WIIITBR!:  A  o  obtained  from  Sir  Arthur  ‘Vellesley  a  de declaration,  claration, declaration,  that  he  would  not  take  a2ain  his  civil  employment  when  he  was  abroad  on  military  dude-  ;  and  Mr.  W.  e  xpre.sed  his  conNiction  that,  after  what  had  nos  pa.  , STYLE=superscript  :ed  in  the  I  lont  , STYLE=superscript  e,  it  would  he  lon;,  , STYLE=superscript  before  any  Mini,  ter:  ventured  to  commit  the  irregularity  of  which  he  had  complained.  _  The  House  having  resolved  itself  into  a  Committee  of  IVavip  and  Means,  the  Duties  titi  Malt  awl  Sitg:sr,  ai):1  the  'faN  Pions,  were  agreed  to  be  cominued  for  t  I  ..'l*  It  :11.11  (PIAUI  Ilf  Ole  pre-  Wilt  Will  enituing  year  ;  a.  was  the  slim  ot1(000,000,.  to  be  rai,:-  ed  on  Exchequer  for  Cie  service  of  Gicat"
