text
"JAN.  1.  NAUTICAL  INTE  .GENCE.  The  Loire  frigate  sailed  some  time  ago  from  this  country  for  Spain,  with  two  millions  of  dollars,  arms,  Sec.  for  the  use  of  the  Patriots.  On  her  passage,  when  off  L'Orient,  she  was  approach approached  ed approached  during  the  night  by  a  large  ship,  which  she  soon  found  to  he  a  74  of  the  enemy,  who  poured  a  broadside  into  h.T.  The  Loite  returned  the  charge,  undismayed  by  the  enemy's  superiority,  and  continued  a  sharp  action  of  half  an  hour  with  the  74.  The  Captain  of  the  Loire,  mindful  however  of  the  nature  of  the  service  upon  which  he  had  been  sent,  and  of  the  risk  to  which  it  might  be  exposed  in  so  unequal  a  contest,  thought  it  prudent  to  sheer  off,  returning  the  enemy's  compliment  with  a  salute  of  a  broadside.  We  are  happy  to  hear,  that  the  lass  of  the  Loire  in  this  gallant  action  is  very  inconsiderable,  and  that  she  pur pursued  sued pursued  her  destination  without  having  received  any  material  damage.  It  is  singularly  fortunate  for  several  of  the  most  dis distinguished  tinguished distinguished  advocates  of  Spanish  Independence,  that  the  Loire  frigate  escaped  the  attempt  of  her  powerful  adversary.  Viscount  Materosa  and  M.  de  la  Vega,  Deputies  from  Asturias,  and  their  Secretary  M.  Aug.  de  Arguelles,  were  on  board  the  frigate,  and  had  they  been  conveyed  to  France,  might  have  shared  the  fate,  of  the  Duke  D'Enghien  and  others,  who  have  been  sacrificed  to  the  ungovernable  passions  and  fearless  atrocity  of  the  Ruler  of  France.  The  following  is  an  extract  of  a  Letter  from  Capt.  Crabtree,  of  the  John,  bound  to  the  Brazils,  dated  Madeira,  N  ov.  24  :  The  Mutine  brig  of  war,  with  part  of  her  convoy  for  the  Brazils,  arrived  here  yesterday.  The  Fleet  was  dis dispersed  persed dispersed  in  different  gales.  The  stragglers  are  dropping  in.  The  Mutine  intends  to  sail  to-morrow,  with  such  ships  as  are  collected.  The  Ben  Letnond  (a  pendant  ship)  is  here.  None  of  the  Portuguese  vessels  came  out  of  Falmouth  with  the  fleet.  The  fleet  sailed  from  Portsmouth  2d  November,  put  into  Falmouth  the  4th,  and  sailed  the  next  day.  The  Afrii-an  and  Cork  Convoys  are  gone  The  Orion  man  of  wat  lately  ran  down,  in  the  Baltic,  a  large  Russian  ship  during  a  gale  of  wind,  and  nearly  the  whole  of  the  drew  perished.  POT.'  C  E.  M  ILLISO  !LOU  Gli-STREET.—A  charge  of  an  assault  was  pre preferred  ferred preferred  by  Miss  Louisa  Manningham,  a  Cyprian  of  the  first  order,  belonging  to  the  Mary-le-hone  corps,  against  a  Mr.  P  —n,  Gentleman  of  fortune.  The  circumstances  N.:vie  of  a  curious  nature.  It  appeared  that  Mr.  P.  the  defendant,  was  a  very  old  acquaintance  of  Miss  Manningham,  and  he  called  at  ten  o'clock  on  Monday  night  to  pay  her  a  visit.  He  was  ushered  into  the  Lady's  drawing-room,  in  Mary-le-bone  New  Road,  to  await  the  arrival  of  his  beloved  ;  when,  to  his  mortification,  at  twelve  o'clock,  the  arrival  of  Miss  M.  was  announced  14  a  thundering  knock  at  the  door:  She  alighted  from  a  Gentleman's  chariot,  accompanied  by  the  GentLman  himself  a  gallant  Major;  and  Mr.  P.  having  refused  to  depart  from  the  drawing-room,  waited  and  received  the  fair  Lady  and  her  new  gallant.  The  Gentleman  ex exchanged  changed exchanged  angry  compliments,  and  the  Lady  was  upbraided  for  her  infidelity,  which  she  denied,  and  represented  her  origital  paramour  us  an  impostor,  and  no  Gentleman.  A  general  row  ensued,  and  the  object  of  battle  was  in  the  very  midst  of  it,  and  somehow  the  fair  one  became  injured  in  cue  of  her  eyes  by  the  reucontre,  but  it  appeared  altogether  an  accident,  occasioned  by  her  violent  temper.  Mr.  P.  was  taken  to  the  watch-house,  and  the  Major  was  left  in  possession  of  his  prize.  PUBLIC-OFFICE,  HATTON  •  GARDEN.  —Thursday,  Henry  Lambert,  late  a  pawnbroker,  who  had  been  burnt  out  in  Port Portpool-lane,  pool-lane, Portpool-lane,  attended  at  this  office,  and  stated  that  at  nine  o'clock  on  Wednesday  night,  three  men  addressed  him  under  pretence  of  carrying  a  letter  for  them,  when  they  inunediately  thrust  him  into  the  kitchen  of  his  late  burnt  house,  bound  him  hands  and  feet  with  cords,  gagged  his  mouth  with  twisted  brass  wire  and  cork  ing  pins  transversely  fixed;  the  cords  which  bound  him  were  suspended  from  the  ceiling.  The  villains  afterwards  robbed  him  of  ten  guineas  and  a  metal  watch,  and  went  away,  leaving  the  poor  man  in  the  utmost  torture,  in  which  he  remained  until  Thursday  morning,  at  eight  o'clock  ,when  he  was  released,  greatly  exhausted.  He  had  hardly  any  recollection  of  their  persons,  the  tranasaction  having  taken  place  in  the  dark.  Diligent  search  is,  however,  making  to  find  them  out,  if  possible.  MA  R  LBO  ROILTGH-STRE  E  l'.—Thursday  Jack  Baker,  alias  Turnbull,  was  brought  up  for  his  second  examination  on  a  charge  of  being  one  of  the  parties  concerned  in  the  late  burglary  in  the  house  of  the  Countess  of  Morton,  in  Park-lane,  three  of  whom  were  capitally  convicted  at  the  last  Old  Bailey  Sessions.  The  Prisoner  admitted  he  was  of  the  party,  but  alleged  that  he  was  15  first  seduced  to  that  profligate  way  of  life  by  M'Coy,  who  turned  King's  e  videuer,  and  was  one  of  the  witnesses  against  his  accom accomplices  plices accomplices  at  the  last  Sessions  at  the  Old  Bailey.  Ile  was  fully  committed  for  trial."
