text
"riltt  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  JAN.  29.  FOREICIN  INTEMAGENCE.  fitOM  TilE  SPANISH  PAPERS;  11.--:-Bra  report  received  from  Don  Alex Alexander  ander Alexander  de  Tapia,  who  was  sent  by  the  Junta  of  Murcia  to  as,7er as,7ertain  tain as,7ertain  the  position  of  the  enemy,  it  .appearS,  that  our  advanced  parties  fell  in  With  the  French  near  Villanueva  del  Cardet,  routed  them  and  took  sixty  prisoners  i  that  a  similar  occurrence  took  place  near  Villamantioue,  where  another  French  detach detachment  ment detachment  was  completely  routed,  put  to  the  sword,  or  taken  prison prisoners,  ers, prisoners,  the  Sotamander  of  this  detachment,.  a  General  Officer,  hay haying  ing haying  been  kiiled  by  The  peasants;  that  OW  French  troops,  who  entered  Taramou,  are  sirrounded  b/  ours;  and,  lastly,  that  th  e  divisions  of  Cuenca  and  Infantado  are  in  full  march  to  follow  up.  the  advantages  obtained  over  the  enemy.  The  French  I.7abitict,  ever  insolent  and  artful,  has  lately  seen  its  insidious  plots  cotnpletely  disconcerted  by  his  Britannic,pt Britannic,ptjesty's  jesty's Britannic,ptjesty's  refusal  to  listen  to  the  iniqUitOns  and  insulting  proposition  •  of  Pence,  which  Napoleon  roused  to  he  presented  to  him.  The  English  Cabinet,  which  has  tolemnly  engaged  •not  lo  separate  its  interests  from  those  of  Spain,  has  on  that  critira  occasion  given  fresh  proofs  of  that  generou  s  fi  rmness  and  friend friend  - friend  ship,  'With  which  it  joins  in  the  defence  orthe  Spanish  Monarchy  and  Nation,  and  nf  the  lawful  supreme  authority  of  the  Central  Junta,  svhieJi  represeno  and  governs  in  the  name  of  qur  King  and  Lind,  Ferdinand.  .Iteltild  any  Spaniard  ever  have  enter entertained  tained entertained  a  doubt  with  regard  to  the  noble  and  glorious  keni  with  which  the  Biiiish  Govermilent  has  joined  ns  to  assert  our  iihettv  and  independence  a„gainst  the  enetny  of  GOA  and  man,  they  will  read  with  inexpressible  Vleastite  and  gratitude  the  correspondence  carried  on  between  the  British  and  French  Cabinets  do  the  con conditions  ditions conditions  hf  peace  proposed  by  the  universal  Tyrant.•  The  King  our  Lord;  Ferdinand  VII.  and  in  his  Royal  name,  the  Central  Junta  of  Government  has  thonkla  it  right  to  itend  to  the  Court  of  LondOn  An  Ambassador  Extraordinary,  to  coMPli coMPlitnent  tnent coMPlitnent  the  King  of  the  United  Kingdotti  of  Great  •Britain  and  Ireland.  and  to  thank  his  Iltitaddic  .liajesty  for  the  generosity  with  which  he  assists  the  Spanish  Nation  in  the  gluriou,:  task  to  defend  the  '.'',oyereituty  Mid  rights  of  beloved  Stivereign;anti  its  ow„  . STYLE=superscript  n  independence  against  the  usurpailoh  of  the  Emperor  nf  the  French.  And  considering  the  distinguished  character  and  •  situation  of  his  Excellency  Don  Pedro  Cerello,  Knight  or  the  Grand  Crbsi  of  the  koyal  and  Distinguished  Order  of  Charles  Jord  nt  the  Bedchamber,  Privy  Counsellor,  and  Principal  Secretary  of  State,  has  Chosen  him  for  that  import:int  miss;on,  hnd  appointed  him  Ambassador  Lytraordinary  to  tl:e  tThurt  of  Londnu.—Olovertintent  Gazo-tte  of  Januarg  11.)  IMPERIAL  PARLIAMENT,  ItOliSF,  OF  LORDS.  MONDAY,  JAN.  Q.t.  ARMY  IN  PORTUGAL.  Lord  LtYtttroot  stibmittect  to  the  consideratibn  of  their  Lordships  a  Motion  of  Thanks  to  the  Right  Hon,  Sir  Arthur  -  Wellesley,  latcly  Cimitnariding  in  Portugal,  and  to  the  Officers  and  Soldiers  under  him,  for  their  gallant  and  ever•ltnemorable  Atchievements  in  that  couutry  on  the  17th  and  tlAt  of  August  last  ;  especially  upon  the  latter  day,  when  by  the  valour  they  display display.  . display.  ed  i  and  the.  dilliellties  whiett  they  surmounted,  they  not  only  added  canal  lustre  tti:the  British  arms,  but  proved  to  the  World,  that,  in  the  ••Itort  period  of  14  days,  a  f,)rce  which  never,  during  that  time,  had  actually  exceeded  frpm  13,000  to  17,000  had  de defeated  feated defeated  not  ooly  gn  army  Of  2500,  but  rescued  from  them  a  kingdom.  •  TPere  irai  one  circumstance  to  which  he  most  riecessarily  call  •  their  Lordship;  particular  attention,  the  more  especiall:k  so,  as  it  related  to  a  meritorious  oliicer,  Sir  H.  Burrard.  The  Housei  mould  perceive  thftt  be  was  not  Included  in  the  Motion  at  Thank.  , STYLE=superscript  z;  but  the  House  would  perceive  that  he  took  no  coin coinnand  nand coinnand  in  rithe'r  of  the  engagements  to  which  he  invited  tile  mit  ice  of  their  Lordships,  conFecinently  he  could  hot,  being  on  the  latter  day  a  mere  spectator,  Wttliout  any  actual  command  when  the  battle  commenced.  and  it  wtsuld  be  contrary  to  usage;  that  he  should  be  s  9  included,  when  ro  respnie  , STYLE=superscript  ibility  could  be  attached  to  him.  Ole  Noble  Lord  then  moved,  That  the  Thanks  of  the  Muse  be  given  to  Lieut.  Gen.  Sir  A.Wellesle:.,  K,.  B.  for  the  dit dittiuguiihed  tiuguiihed dittiuguiihed  valour  and  skill  he  displayed,  together  with  the  olii;  61  cers  and  soldiers  under  hint,  ou  the  17th  and  VIA  of  August  last,  in  l'ortizal.  - STYLE=superscript  Earl  M  ttA  could  not  Consider  the  omissin'a  Of  *ll  . STYLE=superscript  ..ttur  . STYLE=superscript  ard'!.  name  a:  any  (king  short  of  et;tivet  nig  an  implied  ren-u  re  ul.on  him.  The  motion,  of  tk  Nol.vle  Earl  v:  as  an  iojtistiee  to  Sir  I  lintrard,  hich,  he  tiusted,  the  equity  of  their  Lordships  would  indict  upon  a  deserving  and  honourable  gentleman;  and  as  to  the  :  . STYLE=superscript  act  of  his  advising  Sir  A.  Wellesley  Mit  to  advance  after  the  battle,  from  the  oceuriences  that  were  developed  t.t.  that  Board,  he,  for  one,  thought  tarn  right  in  hi:  judgement  in  that  respect.  His  Lordihip  then  moved  an  Amendment,  That  the  tWrif'..  et'  Sir  llarry  Ilurrard  ,hotild  be  inserted.  Lord  HA  anowny  obleeted,  in  very  derisive  tens;  in  tl:e  amendment.  Ilh  wai  well  tonvi%ccd  that  the  distingui  ihed  otl  -  cet  Was  the  last  Man  iothe  world  wit°  would  desire  it.  Lord  linsiut.'  saw  no  difference  In  the  c!tie  of  Sit.  H.  Be Berard  rard Berard  from  that  of  a  Naval  Commander  In  Chief,  who  might  be  fifty  leagues  frerm  the  action,  and  3noritig  in  his  cabin  so  loud,  that  nobody  in  the  ship  could  tileep  but  himself;  yet  he  wodld  share  all  the  hotOtrs,  and  all  the  prqfies  of  the  victory,  as  Well  as  the  sailor  who  was  in  tile  hottest  part  of  the  'engage:-  tnent.  qu6tlon  ..v:6  then  put  on  the  amendnient  off'  [ACM  Moira,  was  negatived  withotit  a  division,  and  with  mil'  one  ur  'two  dissentient  voice:  original  motion  tilts  then  pO,  upon  *filch  Lord  Moira  oh.•  served,  that  thongh  his  amendment  had  been  negatived,  yet  lie  heartily  concurred  ifi  the  test  iniony  w  had  beet'  paid  to  thit  merits  and  gallantry  of  Sir  Ai  Wellesley.  The  Motion  was  then  etainimously  agreed  to.  WEDNESDAY,  J  AN.  25.  •  '  ,  T  1!  E  D  tTTLE  li  F  COD  V  N  NA.  tiOra  t,IYERPOOt.  rose,  to  move  the  Thanks  of  the  House  to  the  Generals  and  Officers  tinder  whose  conduct,  and  by  whose  exertions,  the  signal  battle  before  Cormina  ts  .  had  been  won,  and  i STYLE=superscript  by  whose  sk  ill,  activity,  and  courage,  the  re-f.inbarkation  of  the  British  Pi  . STYLE=superscript  oops  had  been  effected.  The  spit.  :dor,  of  that  glorious  .victory,  which  must  for  ever  so  signal(  v  redound  to  the  praise  of  British  valour,  discipline,  and  skill.  he,  mi  doubt,  with  that  !louse  and  the  country,  to  regret  that  it  siteelJ  ba‘%:.  been  Clouded  by  the.disasters  attending  it,  particularly  by  the  fall  of  the  gallant  and  accomplished  officer  wno  had  led  the  %Fin  through  :  such  hardshipsto  such  Ahir  . STYLE=superscript  ..  IIL.  luta  the  hhnhur  el'  being  personally  acquainted  with  thaidistinguished  leader;  and  his  fall  he,  thereftireutsad  the  snore  sincerely  to  deplore,  la.-  cause  he  could  have  the  more  fully  avpreriated  die  loss  which  in  every  respect  the  country  sustained-40r  Sri  John  Moore  was  among  the  most  valiant  of  her  sons.  lie  had  exclusively,  de devoted  voted devoted  his  life  toter  service,  and  her  interests  and  her  henotir  were  always  the  first  objects  itt  Isis  sight,  and  the  constant  aim  of  his  unwearied  exertions.  'Ada  were  the  high  motives  that  sup;-  Plied  thespring  of  all  his  actions  , STYLE=superscript  and  whi STYLE=superscript  c  h STYLE=superscript  formed STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  life STYLE=superscript  that STYLE=superscript  proved.as  useful  to  his  fellow  countrymen  as  it  was  loelous  to  himself.  Impressed  with  the  fuikst  conv.ction  that  every  No No'  ' No'  hie  Lord  must  concur  in  these  feelings  notnin,led  as  he  wished  them  to  be,  he  should  content  himself  with  following  the  precedents  that  had  been  obszrved  on  .  occasions  similar  to  the  present,  and  concluded  with  moviog,  that  the  Thanks  of  that  Itouse  be  gi‘eci  to  Sir  Davi,l  flacrd,  Lieutenant-  General  Hope,  &amp;c..6x.  who  took  the  coonuand  of  the  army  in  consequence  of  the  wound  received  by  Lieutenaut-general  Moore.  ..  Lord  Month  in.  giving  .  his  warm  coneui  , STYLE=superscript  ence  to  the  too;  tion,  as  far  as  it  im.luded  the  merits  of  the  artny,  and  its  Geocial,  .I:legged  leave  to  observe,  that  he  should  not  thereby  be  pleased,  by  any  mewls,  to  approve  of  the  comillyt  of  those  who  had  employed  :hat  army,  in  a  try  tier,  the  britot  le le-1  -1 le-1  preheilsible  and  absurd.  In  Spain,  was  the  ttic  or  to6land  to  he  fought.  The  proudest-po'lion  of  the  this!:  arm.,  was  sent  to  light  it.  •lihe  army  ffiugliv  as  tiighilaye  been  expcteci  from  its  known  intrepidity  and  discipline;  not  all  its  euoufs  were  frustrated  by  the.Lnorance  or  incaparit  of  tliose  who  had  the  direction  of  vur  public  affairs.  1.  taeir  t►atul  nothing,pros•  pored  ;  the  strength  as  well  as  the  gle!  . STYLE=superscript  y  or  the  ',Minn  laws  &amp;i  use  decline;  its  shdrt,  we  were  a  sinking  country.  'I  liis  nlisrou  , STYLE=superscript  :..a.t  of  Minister:  , STYLE=superscript  was  tip  can'e  of  all  the  t•titr:i  ings  Pt:id  :al  the  de  , STYLE=superscript  -  appointutents  of  our  armies;  and  if  he  left  them  it  scensured,  nit  should  feel  that  he  deserted  the  case  of  his  brave  companious  in  arms.  .  Lord  ERSKINn  took  pride  to  hims  elf STYLE=superscript  in  rellettin  O  jon  p:  long  catalogue  of  Pelves  who  adorned  the  eouott!  to  ‘i  U  0  he  had  •  ♦  ."
