text
"191  juncture;  and  though  Portugal  happened  at  that  time  to  be  the  worst  scene  they  could  have  chrism  ;  they  cannot,  in  the  present  instance,  select  a  more  favourable  ground  than  that  which  lies  between  the  9cheld  and  the  Ems.  This  is  the  vulnerable  heel  of  'the  enemy;  and,  if  the  blow  be  vigorous,  it  will  be  felt  through  every  member  of  that  monstrous  body.  An  English  army  of  60,000  men,  landed  on  any  one  part  of  that  coast,  would  kindle  in  'Tolland,  the  North  of  Germany,  and  perhaps,  in  Brabant,  where  the  minds  of  the  inhabitants  are  worked  up  to  a  furious  abhorrence  of  the  tyrant,  a  spirit  of  resistance  more  ardent  and  .decisive  than  that  which  broke  out  in  Spain.  Similarity  of  re religion,  ligion, religion,  ancient  recollections,  and  the  sense  of  present  misery,  would  brace  every  arm,  and  animate  every  heart,  in  support  of  .the'romn►nn  cause.  And  whilst  the  tyrant  is  contending  on  the  Ebro  and  the  Danube  for  the  establishment  of  universal  dominion,  .a  blow  might  be  struck  him  on  the  Ems,  which  would  tumble  from  his  base,  stunned  and  reeling  the  towering  Colossus.  FOREIGN  INTELLIGENCE.  FROM  THE  FRENCH  PIPERS.  ADMIRAL  GANTHEAUME  TO  THE  MINISTER  OF  MARINE:  On  board  the  Comnterce  de  Paris,  in  the  Roads  of  Toulon,  Feb.  `2B,  ISO  9.  Stn—Yesterday,  the  21th,  caused  the  frigates  of  his  Majesty,  La  Penelope  and  La  Pauline,  to  he  sent  out,  in  order  to  drive  away  an  English  frigate,  which  within  a  few  days  had  indiscreetly  come  to  explore  the  movements  in  the  roads.  Cap Captain  tain Captain  9  Duhourdier,  of  La  Penelope,  and  Montfort,  of  La  Pauline,  •  bad  orders  to  re-enter  in  the  evening,  and  when  they  had  exe executed  cuted executed  this  manceuvre,  the  English  frigate  followed  them  in  their  retreat,  and  returned  at  the  fall  of  day  to  reconnoitre  the  squadron  of  his  Majesty,  to  a  very  short  distance  from  Cape  Sicie.  I  then  ordered  the  same  two  frigates  to  make  ready  again  as  soon  as  the  darkness  should  prevent  their  manoeuvres  from  being  -obierved  by  the  enemy,.  and  after  having  put  out  to  sea  at  a  dis distance,  tance, distance,  return  into  the  roads,  in  order  to  cut  off  the  retreat  of  the  frigate,  awl  engage  it.  manrruvre  was  executed  with  as  much  precision  as  ad-  -(irrss,  and  your  Excellency  will  find  annexed  the  report  of  Cap Cap_tali  _tali Cap_tali  Dubourdier,  which  gives  au  account  of  the  success  be  met  with.  The  frigate  La  Proserpine  is  a  fine  vessel,  quite  new,  built  a  year  ago,  and  which  in  three  days  may  be  put  to  sail'  under  •the  flag  of  the  Emperor.  lain,  IX/TER  FROM  eirrxtf:  nunotrantra,  &amp;C.  64 STYLE=superscript  Toulon  Roads,  Feb.  '26,  on  board  the  Penelope.  •  44  AnMIR  T.—Agreeably  to  the  orders  of  your  Excellency,  •  the  frigates  of  the  Emperor,  La  Penelope,  under  my  command,  and  La  Pauline,  Capt.  Montfort,  went  out  yesterday  evening  at.  eight  o'clock,  in  order  to  drive  away  and  attack  the  English  frigate  which  had  approached  the  roads  when  we  returned  to  anchorage.  We  have  been  happy  enough  to  fulfil  your  intention  corn corn'pletely.  'pletely. corn'pletely.  •  two  o'clock  this  morning  we  perceived  the  frigate;  at  a  ,quarter  past  four  we  engaged  her  ;.  at  a  quarter  past  five  she  yielded  her  flag.  Our  good  fortune  was  such,  that  though  we  fought  very  'close  and  at  night,  the  Pene;ope  and  Pauline  had  not  a  single  man  either  killed  or  ‘voundcd.  The  Penelope  received  some  'slight  injury.  The  Pauline,  by  the  akilful  position  in  which  she  kept,  met  with  none.  The  hostileirigate  is  the  Proserpine,  of  42  guns,  Captain  'Charles  Otter,  with  '290  men  ;  she  left  the  Docks  less  than  a  *year  ago,  and  cruised  near  Toulon  about  two  months.  She  had  eleven  men  killed  in  this  alfair,  and  fifteen  wounded.  I  cannot  sufficiently  prai  s  e  the  manner  in  which  Captain  Montfort  seconded  me,  as  wcll  as  the  good  conduct  and  ardour  of  .the  officers  and  crews  of  the  two  frigates,  &amp;c.  DUDOURDIEn.  GERMANY.'  Op  the  Ist  of  March,  at  Vienna,  theOlppearance  of  things  was  'warlike.  Not  a  day.  passed,  during  qiich,  regiments  of  cavalry  and  infantry  did  not  pals  the  capital,  an  , STYLE=superscript  l  several  rc‘inleuts  a•erc  further  expected  front  Hungary.  The  six  first  battalions  of  the  Vienna  fencibles  were  mustered  publicly  on  the  3d  inst.  from  which  day  they,  as  well  as  their  regular  troops,  were  to  receive  full  pay.  In  the  following  week  they  were  to  be  presented  to  his  Majesty,  and  theu  proceed  on  their  march  to  Upper  Austria.  On  the  17th  of  February  the  Archduke  John  proceeded  to  Ailtsburgh  and  the  interior  of  Austria,  and  the  Count  de  Belle•  grade  to  Krakau.  On  the  same  day  a  Russian  Major  arrived  at  Vienna  With  dispatches  of  the  greatest  importance.  It  is  asserted  that  his  Majesty,  accompanied  by  the  Archduke  Palatine,  was  to  go  to  Hungary  on  the  10th  of  March,  in  order  to  survey  the  troops  there.  At  ;Munich,  the  greatest  industry  was  employed  in  the  arse arsenals,  nals, arsenals,  and  the  greater  part  of  the  garrison  were  already  gone  to  the  Tyrol.  On  the  6th  of  March,  the  whole  division  of  General  Whede,  1'2,000  men  strong,.  was  to  break  up  from  Ulm,  Augs Augsburg,  burg, Augsburg,  Lindau,  &amp;c.  towards  the  Inn.  At  Dresden,  measures  have  been  taken  to  protect  the  town  from  attack,  which  were  become  the  more  necessary,  as  a  great  quantity  of  Austrian  cavalry  was  cantoned  near  the  Saxon  fron frontiers,  tiers, frontiers,  and  the  Archduke  Charles  was  arrived  at  Prague.  The  garrison  of  this  city  has  already  marched,  and  it  is  said  that  a  powerful  Austrian  army  is  already  collected  at  Egra.  •  According  to  intelligence  from  the  Maine,  of  the  3d  of  March,  Russia  is  labouring  to  compose  the  difference  between  the  two  powers.  Letters  from  the  South  of  France,  received  at  Frankfort  the  7th  of  March,  state,  that  the  communication  with  Spain  by  the  way  of  Perpignan,  through  Catalonia,  is  not  altogether  free.  The  French  have  strong  garrisons  in  Rosas  and  Figueras  :  but  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Gerona,  and  beyond,  there  are  still  nu numerous  merous numerous  bands  of  insurgents,  who  indeed  are  dispersed  as  soon  as  regular  troops  approach,  but  as  soon  as  these  retire,  they  appear  again,  and  vernier  the  plains  insecure.  At  Perpignan,  an  army  of  reserve  has  been  formed,  probably  destined  to  besiege  Gerona,  while  Sir  Cv  has  advanced  towards  Arragon,  in  order  to  unite  with  the  French  Marshals.  In  Barcelona  also  a-strong  garrison  has  been  left  behind.—(  Delft  Courant,  16th  March.)  P2_TB00010 )"
