text
"..........--,,_  .  .  .  ,  art  of  governing,  as  they  did  - STYLE=superscript  in  every  thing  else  W  Well  required  fine  combinations,  v  ersonified  even  their  country  by  temples  and  Statues,  and  thus  made  her  a  visible  object  of  the  veneration  and  love  of  her  votaries.  We  have  seen  in  the  act  of  union  in  Ire Irelaad,  laad, Irelaad,  a  fatal  example  of  the  truth  of  the  foretkoing  remark,  where  the  immortal  PITT  immortatt/i4cd  diseon!ent  by  depriving  the  in-  habitant  of  their  forms  of  independence.  A  sulky  mditietence  on  the  pait  of  the  people,  affords  an  •inexhaustible  means  to  the  internal  and  external  enemies  of  go government,  vernment, government,  of  impeding  its  measures  ;  and  some  late  transactions  are  sufficient  to  shew  with  what  avidity  - STYLE=superscript  an  attack  upon  persons  most  closely  connected  with  it,  is  attended  to,  and  encouraged.  '  The  people  must  love  or  hate  ;  and  their  antipathies  and  pre prepossessions  possessions prepossessions  are  generally  as  whimsical  as  those  of  women.  The  higher  orders  have,  however,  forfeited,  by  the  irregularity  of  their  private  lives,  every  claim  to  their  respect  and  affection.  Amilst  the  universal  wreck,  it  is  a  very  fortunate  circumstance  tl  , STYLE=superscript  is  feeling  still  exists  in  the  country.  The  feelings  of  the  pu  blic.  which  are  now•  scattered,  must  be,  therefore,  collected  and  concentrated.  Enmity  to  France  might  he  made  by  skilful  ministers  the  great  focus  to  attract  the  popular  sentiment.  The  R  mans  and  Greeks,  whose  policy  we  edmire  the  more  we  stapdy  it,  as  soon  as  a  dangerous  spirit  of  discontent  began  to  manifest  i  self  among  the  people,  hastened  to  divert  it  by  war,  and  judi judifl  fl judifl STYLE=superscript  ciously  c  mverted  that  very  feeling,  which  would  have  been  so  highly  injurious  to  the  coat  nullity,  to  advance  its  honour  and  security.  A  rooted  antipathy  to  Trance  is  one  of  the  strongest  inereci'-  ents  in  t!.e  character  of  an  Eusiit  , STYLE=superscript  hlann.  Throagh  the  impolicy  of  GovernMent  it  does  not  manifest  itself  with  that  violence  which  formerly  distinguished  it.  The  disgrace  and  pusillani,  mity  of  our  late  mode  of  warfare,  made  the  multitude  ashamed  to  abuse  a  nation,  whom  they  were  not  peg  alined  to  encounter  openly  in  the  field  ;  and  they  began  to  manifest  some  sullen  signs  of  respect  for  a  people  whom  their  Government  seemed  to  ap ap'prehend.  'prehend. ap'prehend.  To  this  sentiment  the  former  vigour  might  be  easily  communicated;  if  the  people  were  allowed  an  kontsurable  vent  .to  their  feelings.  A  British  army  of  a  hundred  thousand  men,  contending  on  the  Continent,  would  re-establish  the  ancient  loyalty,  the  ancient  abhorrence  of  the  enemy.  The  dangers,  the  exploits,  the  privations  of  their  hrethern  would  collect  on  the  enemy  the  whole  Blass  of  popular  hatred,  which  never  mani manifests  fests manifests  itself,  without  considerable  danger,  towards  obnoxious  .persons  at  home.  The  one  foments  and  raises  the  national  en energy  ergy energy  and  character,  whilst  the  other  suffocates  and  depresses  them.  This  simple,  vigorous,  arid  efficient  policy  is  rceson rcesonmended  mended rcesonmended  by  every  principle,  which  cestomands  the  affections,  biasses  the  feelings,  or  regulates  the  judgment  ;  and,  if  speedily  and  edicaciously  adopted,  will  check  the  present  ferment,  and  fix  the  national  energy  on  an  lin:notable  national  object.  FOREIGN  IN  TE  LLIGENCE.  FROM  . STYLE=superscript  TIIE  GOT7T  4 STYLE=superscript  .BUA7GII  MAIL.  REVOLUTION  INT  SWEDEN.  PROC  L.-IM  AT  leN  ISSVED  BY  TILE  nuxr.  OF  , STYLE=superscript  lUDERMA  NIA,  ON  HIS  ASSIJM  ING  THE  GOVERNMCNT.  46 STYLE=superscript  NVe,  CHARLES,  by  the  Grace  of  God,  Hereditary  Prince  of  Sr.eden,  the  Guth,  Vandals,  Duke  of  Suderinania,  Grand  Admiral,  &amp;c.  &amp;c.  do  declare,  that  under  existing  circum circumstances,  stances, circumstances,  his  Majesty  is  incapable  to  act,  or  to  conduct  the  im important  portant important  all'airs  of  the  Nation.  We  have,  therefore,  (being  - STYLE=superscript  the  nearest  and  only  branch  of  the  family  of  age)  been  induced  for  the  time  being,  as  Administrator  of  the  Kingdom,  to  take  the  rein  4  of  Government  into  our  hands,  which,  with  the  help  of  the  Almighty  we  will  conduct,  so  that  the  Nation  may  regain  Peace  both  at  home  and  abroad,  aad  that  trade  rani  contmerce  may  re revive  vive revive  from  their  languishing  state.  jr  ) STYLE=superscript  i  °. STYLE=superscript  L.%elt  MIONMI•M•mmmm.-  Our  inviolable  intention  is,  to  consult  with  the  State  .  Ate  means  to  be  taken  to  render  the  future  time  happy  to  the  people  of  Sweden.  We  invite  and  command,  therefore,  all  the  inhabitants  of  our  nation,  our  forces  by  sea  rtad  land,  and  also  the  Civil  Officers  of  all  degrees,  to  obey  us,  as  our  real  inten intention,  tion, intention,  and  their  own  welfare  Oemand—We  recommend  you  all  is  '.he  protection  of  God  Almighty.  Done  at  Stockholm  Palace,  13th  March,  IEO9.  (Signed)  CHARLES.  C.  PROCLAMATION.  A  considerable  number  of  soldiers  have  taken  up  arms  in  or order  der order  to  march  to  the  capital,  aid  relieve  our  common,  now  un unfortunate  fortunate unfortunate  and  dismembered,  native  country.  As  all  our  fellow-citizens  must  be  sensible  that  our  views  are  such  as  public  spirit  and  honour  dictate  to  virtuous  minds,  we  cannot  he  mistaken  in  our  implicit  confidence,  that  our  brethren  in  arms,  and  our  unarmed  fellow-citizens,  will  not  form  any  in incorrect  correct incorrect  opinion  of  our  sentiments  and  views.  They  are  merely  these!  that  the  States  of  the  Realm,  and  our  Legislators,  shall  be  at  liberty  to  assemble  and  deliberate,  uncontrouled,  on  the  means  of  restoring  the  prosperity  of  our  suffering  country.  We  have  solemul  contracted  the  eng,agement,  to  lay  at  their  feet  the  arms  o  hick  they  have  taken  up  to  preserve  their  free freedom.  dom. freedom.  We  Will  form  a  wall  round  the  hall  where  Swedish  legia.  lotions  hold  their  sittings,  whish  no  persons  on  earth  shall  he  able  to  •bear  down.  We  have  solemnly  contracted  the  engages  went  to  destroy  all  such  as  shall  still  endeavour  to  prefer  foreien  concessions  to  the  internal  welfare  and  tranquillity  of  Sweden.  Sweden's  Certnan  dominions  are  delivered  up  to  the  enemy.  and  Deland,  the  native  soil  of  a  noble  and STYLE=superscript  g  allant STYLE=superscript  people,  is  lost.  We  have  already  contracted  the  engagement  that  not  a  ,ingle  inch  more  of  the  :Swedish  territory  shall  be  given  up  to  the  eaetny.  Sweden's  trade  and  mines  are  ruined  and  deserted.  Sweden's  youth  are  taken  from  agricultural  pursuits,  in  order  to  he  destroyed  by  sickiless  and  the  sword.  The  burthens  laid  on  agriculture  are  such,  that  they  cannot  be  borne  any  longer  ;  grinding  taxes  are  e  sward  without  mercy  ;  desolation  and  mise misery  ry misery  arc  spreading:  wide  and  far,  and  threaten  universal  ruin.  We  have  contracted  the  solemn  engagement,  that  the  fathers  of  the  country  shall  satiny  full  liberty  to  restove  the  welfare  and  prosperity  of  the  country.  May  the  highest  and  lowest  States  of  the  commonwealth  also  join  heart  anal  hand  to  as-crt  the  freedom  of  the  country  ;  anti  thus  by  harmony  and  well  coticerted  efforts,  insure  success  to  our  enterprise,  and  views  !  Alas  the  fathers  of  the  country  offer  peace  and  amity  to  our  neighbours,  but  accompany  this  o  ith  the  assurance,  that  ever)  Soedish  Hero  will  rather  be  buried  under  the  ruins  of  hi  country,  tlsan  sulfur  a.  single  inch  of  Swedish  ground  to  he  taken  by  our  eueinies,  or  transfer  them.  Our  ally,  Croat  Britain,  shall  learn  to  appreciate  and  value  a  nation  which  !wows  how  to  break  its  fetters  and  rescue  liberty  from  its  chain.  France  shall  learn  to  respect  a  people  anxious  to  rival  its  military  prowess.  The  rulers  of  Russia  and  Den Denmark.  mark. Denmark.  iocessanily  engaged  in  pursuits  tending  to  promote  prosperity  of  their  people,  will  not  disturb  the  aeace  and  tranquillity  of  a  nation  which  merely  desires  to  live  or  die  lade  •  pendent.  We  have  seen  with  s  orrow  the  most  important  concerns  of  ;%s  edeo  managed  in  a  manner  which  NvaA  as  destitute  of  any  ss  cll cllconeei  coneei cllconeei  ved  plan  as  of  success.  May  not  the  remaiaing  strength  of  Sweden  be  waisted  by  folly,  but  employed  by  wisdom  for  the  real  benefit  of  the  coup coup,  , coup,  try.  •  Such  are  our  wishes  for  our  country,  and  we  shall  readily  sa sacrifice  crifice sacrifice  our  lives  to  obtain  their  faltilment.  It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  for  Sweden  that  every  Swedi-h  man  should  at  length  he  allowed  to  rciarn  to  a  peoceful  home.;  as  far  as  can  he  done  without  any  disparagement  to  the  honoun  and  independence  of  Sweden.  The  frontiers  of  the  kingdom  were,  for  a  short  time,  left.  without  defence',  on  account  of  our  departure  from  thence,  hot  should  the  enemy,  contrary  to  his  solemn  promise,  await  self  of  our  absence  to  attack  them.  w  e  shall  speedily  return,  take  a  severe  revenge,  and  convince  him  of  the  difference  of  a  warfare  carried  on  by  general  hatred  of  the  Rulers,  and  a  war,  waged  by  a  nation  anxious  and  detertniaed  to  assert  its  iudepen iudependence.  dence. iudependence.  We  implicitly  confide,  that  all  military  commanders  will  rea readily  dily readily  co-operate  with  us  to  secure,  by  speedy  and  vigorous  e  xer xerti  ti xerti  ons,  the  restoration  of  our  lost  prosperity,  and  the  destructioa  of  our  foreign  fees.  P2_TB00013 010  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  •  '  APRIL  2.:  !,,....7.......i5....,...................„.„................;:z.—.74;.;..--.—.......;....----.;,......,......--  •••  •  .  ._.  .  _:.  •  ..  ,  art  of  governing,  as  they  did  - STYLE=superscript  in  every  thing  else  W  Well  required  •  Our  inviolable  intention  is,  to  consult  - STYLE=superscript  with  the  States  on  the  means  to  be  taken  to  render  the  future  tirne  happy  to  the  fine  combinations,  versonified  even  their  country  by  temples  and  people  of  Sweden.  We  invite  and  command,  therefore,  all  the  btat  tw  s  ,  and  thus  math!  her  a  visible  object  of  the  veneration  and  inhabitants  of  our  nation,  our  forces  by  sea  and  land,  and  also  love  of  her  votaric:.  We  have  seen  in  the  act  of  union  in  Ire-  the  Civil  Officers  of  all  degrees,  to  obey  us,  as  our  real  inten-  land,  a  fatal  example  of  the  truth  of  the  foreigoing  remark,  where  tion,  and  their  own  welfare  demand—We  recommend  you  all  is  the  immortal  PITT  immortataled  discon!ent  by  depriving  the  in-  the  protection  of  God  Almighty.  at  Stockholm  Palac  e, STYLE=superscript  13th  March,  IEO9.  habitant  of  their  forms  of  indep  endence. STYLE=superscript  A  sulky  inditieience  on  the  pait  of  the  people,  affords  an  (Signed)  CHARLES.  inexhaustible  means  to  the*  internal  . STYLE=superscript  and  externat*enemies  of  go-  C.  :•.,  ..,-“a•leotroc  •  !HA  line  late  transactions  PROCLAMATION.  •  -  --"
