text
"SUNDAY,  APRIL  16,  1809.  No.  68.  .POLITICAL  DISQUISITION.  NUMBER  SIXTY-SIX.  LARD  VISCOUNT  CASTLERLAGII:  Infamy  must  attich  somewhere  on,  the  accuser  or  It  does  attach  strongly  and  indelibly  to  the  persons  who  !lave  merited  it  :  and,  like  the•harbed  arrow,  the  more  ef efforts  forts efforts  are  made  to  extract  it,  the  faster  it  sticks,  the  more  incurable  it  renders  the  wound  4--r,  17aeret  lethalis  Let  the  infamous  fly  from  that  community  their  conduct  has  dishonoured  ;  and  into  whatever  haunt  a  distracted  -  conscience,  and  the  exacrations  of  their  fellow-citizens  may  drive  them,  they  carry  with  them  an  excruciating  sting,  which  will  *render  solitude  intolerable.  This  is  the  triumph  of  retributive  justice  ;  and  we  bow  down  in  silent,  respect respectful  ful respectful  admiration,  at  the  dispensations  of  that'Powta,  who,  ultimately,  however  slowly,  never  fails  to  detect  dishonour  and  to  clear  innocence.  The  menaces  and  insults  which  were  Weld  out  to  Mr.  WARDLE,  have  made  no  impression  on  a  bosom  armed  with  integrity;  but  they  have  reverbe reverberated  rated reverberated  with  tenfold  violence  on  the  persons  who  had  the  at attrocity  trocity attrocity  to  cast  them.  The  more  we  reflect  on  this  entire  business,  the  more  We  are  astonished  and  indignant.  The  persons,  who  were  most  noisy  and  brow-heating  on  the  occasion,  who  expressed  the  greatest  indignation  at  the  idea  of  a  person  high  in  office  being  guilty  of  corruption,  or  connivskoet,  lave  added  hypocrisy  to  insolence,  effron effrontery  tery effrontery  to  falsebOod  . STYLE=superscript  ;  for  they  knew  but  too  well,  that  men,  filling  the  highest  ostensible  situations,  have  been  guilty  of  PRICE  94.  vicei  Lord  CLANCART  T  has  rendered  the  corintry,  ,  Hn.ctl  could  induce  his  patron  to  compromise  himself,  degrade  the  Ministet,  and  vicila'e  the  Constitution,  in  order  to  pro procure  cure procure  him  a  seat  in  Parliament.  IF  he  be  a  Nobleman  of  such  conspicuous  merit  and  integrity,  it  would  certainly  be  possible  to  enjoy  the  benefit  of  his  talents  ankl  virtue  in  the  Senate,  without  pursu.ng  do  dang  e  rous  and  reprehen reprehensible  sible reprehensible  a  course  as  has  been  chosen.  The  electors  of  the  United  Kingdom  are  wit  so  indifferent  to  a  display  of  great  qualities,  as  to  overlook  them  in  the  case  of  tf.;l  Nobleman.  But  if  he  happened  to  possess  no  other  pretension  to  so  dis distinguished  tinguished distinguished  au  honour,  than  a  servile  acquiescence  in  the  views  of  the  Minister  svho  patronized  tiini—ne  may  then  have  some  idea  of  the  magnitude  and  danger  of  the  abuses,  which  degrade  the  administration,  and  menace  the  existence  of  the  country.  We  never  entertained  a  very  exalted  opi opinion  nion opinion  of  Lord  CASTAA.REAGWS  principles,  aid  have,  there therefore,  fore, therefore,  never  been  much  astonished.  nor  evil-  offended.  at  the  part  he  has  uniform)y  payed  in  pub!ic  but  we  regret regretted,  ted, regretted,  and  condemned,  and  wept  in  silence.  O  , STYLE=superscript  .:er  tne  preju prejudice's  dice's prejudice's  and  obstinacy  which  obi  ruded  lii  Lordship  into  a  rank  he  is,  in  no  one  sense,  qualified  to  fill.  We  never  were  dazzled  by  the  splendour,  nor  amazed  at  the-comprehen the-comprehensiveness  siveness the-comprehensiveness  of  his  genius  ;  but  we  did  not,  at  the  same  time,  entertain  that  contemptible  notion  of  his  prudence  and  un understanding,  derstanding, understanding,  as  to  think  he  Avouid  betray  such  ignorance  and  contempt  of  the  Constitution,  as  he  manifested  during  that  infamous  transaction.  Tit  *base  herd  of  i;arking  wretches,  who  cringe  and  wag  to  every  man  who  tins  the  distri!  - STYLE=superscript  ;otiott  of  tninisterial  loaiTe  and  fishes,  halve  kept  up,  for  years,  an  unceasing  din  about  ,1  Yr  4  P1_TB00018 saitiug  IMO  1116111:31.  USICUSI  MC  SILUiLLRHIS,  iia%  c  'men  gouty  Of  .  ‘  e  conspiracy  against  the  inst:tu-  the  grossest  malpractices.  The  reason  is  tinaliy  c  o  m  e  out,  the  xistence  of  a  dangerous  done  of  the,  country.  Their  clamour  his  been  too  severely  why  such  a  horrid,  stunning  yell  was  kept  up,  when  th  e  torch  of  investi  ation  was  brouht  near  the  den  of  corrup  condemned,  and  their  advice  inadvertently  sl:ghied  :  It  dues  g  g  -  unfortunately  exist,  and  tts  so  1  alarming  an  extent,  as  to  lion.  The  hideous  ghastly  spectre's  of  jaeobinism  and  Con-  ,  -  raise  very  justifiable  doubt  s  about  the  prole..bility  of  res:st-  spiracy  were  let  loose,  to  terriry  the  bold  adventurer  from  •  it  in  e•  success  u  •  ••f  ll  They  were  partly  in  the  sweet  ;  they  *',  approaching  ;—the  light  reflected  on  one  recess,  might  illu-  .  4  wrtnessed  the  ma  chinations;  - STYLE=superscript  they  ware  emPloyed  as  the  se-  mine  the  secrete  of  the  rest.  condary  agents;  but  they  artliilly  concealed  its  tendency  •  Who  are  now  the  conspirators,  the  jacobins;—the  ene-  and  authors.  The  alarm  was  reprobated  by  the  thinking  •  plies  of  the  Throne  and  people  ?  Who  undermine  the  Con-  and  honest,  as  only  contribtit;rg  to  excite  unnecessary  ititution,  and  contaminate  its  most  vital  parts?  Answer  anxiety  ;  whilst  the  conspirators  were  beeping  faggot  i  wont  that  question,  my  Lord  CASTLEREAGII  !  you  are  silent  ;  quite  .  fars-  ,, STYLE=superscript  0t,  addincr  ode  pitch  barre!  to  another,  until  some  mo-  ts,  n  chop-fallen!  Not  a  subterfuge,  not  even  a  sophistry,  not  .i  dern  Guy  Faux  should  be  found  to  set  fire  to  the  noblest  1  a  single  word  at  your  command,  .to  extricate  yOu  from  the  monument  ever  erected  by  thew  Aion  and  *galas  of  ages.  dilemma.  How  abashed  does  a  g  u  ilty  conscience.  or  rather  •  .  A  select  cominit!ee  of  those  wretches  sat  at  Gloucest;Ts  .  ,  .  detection  in  a  crime,  render  the  most  unblushing,  the  most  pl  a  r.-,  ;  ;mother  met  in  Leadenhhil-street  ;  a  third',  is:  the  ..  callous.  You  will  now  grow  sensible  to  the  truth  and  pro-  Da  i  s,  vicinity  of  llampton-court  ;  and  Iteiiiiig  and  s,  with  '4'  :  _.,  priety,  however  insensible  to  the  beauty,  of  the  adar,—  i  t  i  ~  ~.  their  noblc,'  associates,  formed  a  foorth.  .  .  ,:  44 STYLE=superscript  That  honesty  is  the  hest  The  negoeiation  with  •-  In  listening  to  the  iniquitous  proposals  of  a  despicable,  •  •  4:  „H.  1...  ~.  4  Recline  , STYLE=superscript  has  excluded  von  for  ever,  unless  a  reyolation  take  ..  •  i  Reding  needy  adventurer,  whom  Lord  CA4TLEREA6II  confesses  ,4  place  in  this  country,  from  official  honours  and  rewards.  neither  to  have  heard  of,  nor  seen,  before,—of  a  scouldrel  t,i  , STYLE=superscript  o  fi  1  1 STYLE=superscript  Should  such  an  event  occur,  it  is  impossible  to  fore:.el  what  •  and  rank  imposter,  as  he  is  emphatically  ealled  'by  Mr  ,ii,•  i  l'  rank  you  may  fill  in  the  new  order  of  th;er,;•s;  for  it  is  un-  LvsniNc.Tos,  another  dabbler  in  the  infamous  barter  1  i  to.  , STYLE=superscript  ,  40.  •  'deniable  that  nothing  can  contribute.  so  efficaciously  to  the  ‘.41(1,  P  '-  of  writerships  for  seats  in  Parliameut,—in  doing  30  his  ,  I  .subversion  of  Government,  and  to  promote  the  designs  of  Lordlhip  chewed  neither  the  dignity  of  the  Peer,  the  discre-  ,  I  the  cnettly,  than  the  malpractices  Sou  have  been  found  guilty  of.  It  would  not  be  amiss  to  enquire  Ivilat  extraordinary  ler-  oe  ll`  --tie.  Ldp.'''.  of  triderst  ing,  to  con-  What  inanity  of  feelincr,  as  well  as  .  .  and  fide  in  the  discretion  of  such  a  fedols  I  to  listen  with  pa-  -  --  i  •  i  ,  .  .  /  1 STYLE=superscript  /.  'IF STYLE=superscript  •  .  :"
