text
"Wiz  rd  was  -el:t  in,  aided  by  the  Wizard,  when  it  was  found  impossible  to  bring;  the  enemy  out  without  landing,  the  vessels  hel  fa:tened  to  the  shore  by  their  keels  and  mast-heads.  The  boats  pulled  to  the  beach  with  great  resolutien,  exposed  to  the  tire  of  three  guns,  two  field  piece.,  and  a  continued  fire  of  musquAry  from  the  houses.  One  gun  was  taken  and  spiked,  and  a  con:ikh.rable  force  of  regular  troops  that  defended  the  field-pieces  were  dislodged  and  the  field-pieces  taken  possession  of;  the  whole  of  the  vessels  were  captured.  James  Runner.  Captain  of  the  foretop,  was  killed.  and  William  Palmer  wounded,  is.  all  the  loss  sustained.  Since  the  abase:  action  the  boats  of  the  Wizard  and  Kent,  have  brought  out,•  without  mischief,  from  wider  the  guns  of  a  fort.  uely  Leghorn.,  three  laden  ‘e  . STYLE=superscript  ,els,  and  burnt  a  fourth.  Captain  Pigot,  of  his  Majesty's  ship  Circe,  states  the  capture  of  the  French  corvette  Patlineur  Captain  Cockburn  of  the  Potnpee,  also  gives  an  account  of  the  captive  of  the  fylatles,  a  French  corvette  of  16  guns.  A  Letter  from  the  Master  of  his  Majesty's  late  brig  Maria,  give.  ::n  aeconnt  of  her  capture,  by  a  large  French  corvette  shin,  of  twenty-two  heavy•guns.  git'iteliaria  was  a,  small.brig,  of  (9;4NT  12  pounder  caronades,  and  to  u  long  four,,  and  sixty-five  men.  The  officers  and  crew,  however,  fought  her  well,  and  did  not  strike  until  she  vans  near  sinking  Wlteta  the  enemy  took  possession  they  were  obliged  to  run  her  on  shore  end  destroy  her.  The  loss  on  board  the  wa  ,, STYLE=superscript  James  Bennett,  Liutetiant,  Commander  .4  . STYLE=superscript  Robert  0:Donnell.  Midshrproan  ;  and  four  seamen;  killed  ;  and  nine  wounded,  now  iu  Pixiaka  ,Pftrg  44ospik41  1  ,  in  &amp;  fuir.way  of  re reeoyery.  eoyery. reeoyery.  •;;!  .4:11.44  $  „It's  mssoLvEn.  _  ;orri  r  .v.  •r:  Smith  and  Hodges,  Fore-qtreet,  Laritheth,  barge-builders--  J.  and  1)  Daniel,  Basing-Line,  Loi:don,  cloth-workers—Stagge cloth-workers—Staggemeier  meier cloth-workers—Staggemeier  and  Weteher,  VitlieTs-street,  'Strand,  Iznaokbinders—  Sttxtherd  and  Payne,  Maldon,  Essex.  merchants—Spooner  and  Sherman,  Ipswich,  stablekeepers—Pottell  and  Barnett,.  St.  John's-street,  carpenter,Hill,  Fearnall,  and  Goldie,  Depford,  coal-merchants—Blake  and  Bennet,  Liverpool,  soap-manufac  tisivrs—Davies  and  Lees,  •  A  Ihemat  le-street,  hatters—Schofield,  Littlewood,  and  Ball;  'Sheffield,  merchants—Lea  and  Pratt.  Birmiligha.in,  ivory  box-makers—Campbell,  Ricards.  and  Rishiirdson,  St.  John's-strict,  tobacconists—Robinson  and  Leigh,  Sutton-Heath,  Lancaster,  coal  proprie(ors—Robinson  and  A  islabie,  Kirkby  Stephen,  Westmoreland,  schoolmasters—Hill,  and  Sturdy.  Coventry,  staff-mantifocturers--Hookhani  and  Ebers,  Old  Bond-street—Stanley  and  Emctt,  Blackburn,  joiners  —R..  a‘c:  J.  Parkin,  Kensington,  g  rocers  —.llinchin  and  Com-  Gosport,  .ittornies—flirch,  Bramwell,  and  Calow,  Shef Shefdelu.  delu. Shefdelu.  nierchants—Po*rcher,  'l'.  and  H.  Redhead,  Forbes,  Wil Wilkin-o  kin-o Wilkin-o  K  and  Fletcher,  Devonshire-square,  East  India  Agents—Fuller,  Chatteris,  Yapp,  llarrison,  and  Langton,  Lon London—Oates  don—Oates London—Oates  and  Johnson,  Bradford,  wine-merchants—J.  Hat Hatchett,  chett, Hatchett,  see:.  and  J.  Hatchet;,  Jun.  Piccadilly,  tavern-keepers—  Robi  a  , STYLE=superscript  oe  And  Curry,  N  wcat  pm!  Tyne,  common-brew  cri— cria  a cria  1  Brancker,  Liv  , STYLE=superscript  rpool—  Bound  and  Greensinith,  Ray Raystree  stree Raystree  stoye=grate-makers.  el  •  .  I  g  •  •3.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  JAN.  8.  and  Rowland•  t;i11,  Bristol,  linen-drapers,  at  eleven,  at  the  Rummer  Tavern,  Bristol.  Feb.  7.  Jeremiah  Parkinson  and  John  Stork,  St.  Saviour's  Church-yard,  Southwark,  merchants,  at  twelve,  at  Gui  fclhafl.  Jan.  28.  Thomas  Francis,  C(lodman  Francis,  and  Thomas  Francis,  .tun.  Cambridge,  merchants,  at  eleven,  at  the  Black  Bull  Inn,  Cambridge.  CERTIFICATES—JAN.  28.  William  Piddock  Roper,  I,otichn,.  merchant.  An;,•el  Raphael  Louis  Deianney,  Blakeley,  Lancaster,  dyer.  George  Elliott,  Winchester-street,  London,  merchant.  George  Babson  and  John  Walmsley,  Liverpool,  merchants.  George  Forster,-  Easter  Dichesfield;  Northumberland,  miller.  James  Ai?,,  New  'Bridge-street,  London,  straw-hat-manu..  facturer.  John  Trafford,  Frcidttinghatn,  Lincoln.  beast-jobber.  William  Smith,  IVolverhampton,  Stafford,  butcher.  Henry  'Henry,  Liverpool,  tailor.  Richard  Mnrdey,  Bishop•Wearmouth,  Durham,  ship-owner.  William  Havvksey,  Liverpool,  merchant.  •  —•  TO  OUR  SUBSCRIBERS  AND  THE  PUBLIC.  •  We  inform  J.  C.  that  the  account,  which  appeared  in  several  PaperS,  of  a  provecution  being  instituted  against  ME  NA-  At.  R  r.G4sT  sit,  for  a  libel  on  the  Foundling  Hospital,  is  pettedly  correct.  •  •  ,v  We  acknoWledge  the  two  •  letters  of  a  Friendly  Subscriber  ;  and,  in  expressing  ours  armest  thanks  for  the  kind  interest  he  displays,  express  our  regret-  for  nut  having;  sooner  adverted  to  die  inaccuracy  he  noticed  in  the  3d  pragraph  of  our  Disquisi.  (ton  of  tlie•2sth  October,  where,  instead  of  prolonged  inacti inactivitg,  vitg, inactivitg,  prolonged  activitg  appears.-  •  J.  J.  from  Scone•w  be  duly  attended  to.  f  -  .  It  was  the  intention  of  the  Pito  rRI  molt  s  of  the  NATIPIIi  , STYLE=superscript  P  R  r;GISTER  to  publish,  on  the  13th  instant,  a  C.:0,44E11EN  si  YE  INDEx  to  complete  the  FIRST  V  OLUME  01.*  TliiS  PAPER,  tq;;  ;ether  with  a  PORTRAIT  OF  HIS  MAJESTY,  from  a  Painting  by  Sir  W.  BEECIIEY,  which  will  be  delivered  Git'ATIS,  but  in  consequence  of  the  extraordinary  preparations  that  are  indis indispensable  pensable indispensable  to  render  these  Appendages  worthy  the  preserva preservation  tion preservation  of  the  Public,  the  Proprietors  find  it  necessary  to  delay  the  publication  of  the  above  until  the  22d  inst.  Orders  for  the  Paper  should  he  immediately  sent  to  the  Office,  11,  Catherine-street,  Strand,  to  any  of  the  NewSmen,  Book Booksellers,  sellers, Booksellers,  or  Clerks  of  the  Roads."
