text
"ACCIDENTS  AND  OFFENCES.  A  au  named  John  Taylor,  who  resides  in  Rose  and  crown crowncourt*  court* crowncourt*  Moorfields,  appeared  before  the  Chief  Magistrate,  at  '  Guildhall,  on  the  complaint  of  a  poor  widow,  who  lodged  in  his  house  for  a  considerable  time  past,  whose  goods  he  detained  for  15s.  rent,  while  he  insisted  on  turning  her  out  of  doors.  The  circumstances  of  the  poor  woman's  case  were  peculiarly  hard.  She  *as  a  widow  with  five  small  children  :  one  child  had  recently  died,  and  st►e  had  a  sick  infant  at  her  breast,  of  which  she  appeared  to  have  very  lately  lain  in.  After  collect collecting  ing collecting  the  few  last  shillings  she  could  raise  to  pay  the  undertaker  the  funeral  charges  and  burial  feetdif.  her  dead  child,  she  was  still  short  of  35.44.  for  which  her  humane  laudlosdpassed  his  word  to  the  undertaker.  .  For  this  sum,  together  with  101.  for'  three  weeks  rent,  he  laid  an  embargo  on  tl►e.  reinaining•chattels  of  the  wretched  widow,  at  the  moment  be.  gjected  her  as  an  in intoTVent  toTVent intoTVent  tenant.  The  Lord  Mayor  humanely  interposed,  and  i  'Area  ted  the  fellow  to  have  some  consideratifsn  for  the  ponr  woman's  circumstances,  and  offeied  to  give  him  half-a-G  uinea  from  his  own  poctet  in  com compensation  pensation compensation  for  his  claim.  ButTaylor,,cqual,l4  hard  of  heart  and  hearing,  was  deaf  to  every  thing  short  of  his.rntl  demand,  and  with  'an  iron  countenance  refused  all  compromise.  The  L.prd  Ma  yot,  indignant  at  such  othluraey  in  the  heart  ()fatty:Being  in  the  shape  of  an  Englishman,  gave  hint  the  money,  but  descended  . STYLE=superscript  from  the  Übair  of  Justice,  to  vociferate  in  his  ear  that  he  Was  a  bard-hearted  fellow,  undeserving  of  the  comforts  of  a  hsone,  or  a  place  ih  humanized  society.  ••  .  On  the  22d  ult.  Mr.  Read,received  a  letter.  from.Edinbargh,  stating  that  a  molt  desperate'  robber,  orthe  .name  of  .  George  Ainslie,  had  made  his  escape  hula  ,th  at  city,  and  .  svas  supposed  to  have  arrived  in  London.  The  letter  further  stated,.that  be  bad  a  brother  in  Loudon,  •  Win)  was  a  brass-founder,  bat  in  what  part  of  London  he  resided  was  not  known  ;  very  little  more  inforination  Was  given  of.binii  except  a  full  scription  of  hiS  person.  Mr.  Read  communicated  this.  information  to'  dmon,  who,  in  the  course  afoot.  days,  traced  out  the  brotheF  t  aud  apprehended  George  Ainsl  it,  although  he  assumed  the  name  of  Georica  An-.  derson  since  his  arrival  in  London,  and  was  working  at  his  trade  of  a  bleekstatth  t  for  Messrs.  Moser  and  Co.  !"
