text
"TIIF,  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  and  his  hopes  of  a  happy  termination  of  the  unfortnnale  fl  dispute  were  more  sanguine  and  certain.  This  is  the  inva invarilble  rilble invarilble  tone  of  consummate  villainy,  certain  of  success.  It  would  be  a  hazardous  speculation  to  found  any  con conjecture  jecture conjecture  on  the  increase  of  his  moderation  and  sense  of  justice  since  that  period.  Miracles  may  still  operate.  in  ways  and  for  purposes  concealed  from  our  limited  sight  ;  but  if  the  heart  of  a  BONAPARTE  has  become  susceptible  of  generous  or  humane  feelings,  we  lock  upon  it  as  the  most  extraordinary  mat  ifestation  of  Divine  interference  ever  recorded  in  profane,  or  even  s'cred  history.  We  do  not  recollect  a  well  authenticated  instance  of  grace  operating  era  artitlian  of  his  cast,—he  is  incorrigible.  As  it  would  be  danTereus  to  calcu  ate  on  supernatural  causes,  in  attempt attemptingio  ingio attemptingio  explain  the  motives  of  his  acting,  we  must  endeavor  to  account  for  his  present  policy  according  to  those  prin principle:,  ciple:, principle:,  which  st.em  invariably  to  have  guided  the  ambitious  aril  unprincipled.  We  have  con.,tantly  insisted,  in  opposition  to  our  bro brother  ther brother  jourecists,  and  to  a  very  silly  and  a  very  inaccurate  statement  of  Load  CASTLEREAGH,  that  the  French  military  force  is  not  near  so  numerous  as  is  generally  believed  and  stated.  l  is  unquestionably  the  interest  of  BONAPARTE  to  impress  a  very  formidable  opinion  of  the  strength  and  num number  ber number  of  his  armies;  but  we  camiot  possibly  conceive  what  motives  could  operate  on  the  Noble  Lord  to  promote  the  views  of  the  tyrant  in  this  respect.  Ilis  met-statements  must  arise  from  wilful  prevarication,  unpardonable  igno ignorance,  rance, ignorance,  or  he  considered  it  as  a  parliamentary  ruse  de  guerre,  and  therefore  justifiable.  Whatever  his  motives  may  have  been,  it  is  of  the  highest  importance  to  correct  his  error  of  judgment  or  of  design;  and  we  would  wish  to  know  his  authority  for  asserting  that  the  French  bad  400,000  men  at  their  disposal,  ready  to  pour  into  Spain  ;  if  the  force  they  had  already  in  the  Peninsula,  was  inade inadequate  quate inadequate  to  resist  our  army.  We  know  it,  unfortunately,  that  he,  as  well  as  his  colleagues,  and,  in  fact,  every  pre previous  vious previous  administration,  were  grossly  ignorant  on  a  subject  it  was  so  much  their  duty  to  know,  and  which  they  had  the  means  of  ascertaining.  The  French  army,  according  to  the  opinion  of  the  best  informed  men  on  the  continetq,  never  amounted,  for  the  last  eight  years,  to  :;00,000  effective  men.  This  state statement  ment statement  is  corroborated  by  the  authority  or  the  Prince  o  110HENLORE,  and  indirectly  by  that  of  Lord  HUTCHINSON.  We  are  informed  that  his  Lordship  was  of  opinion  the  enemy  had  not  150,000  in  Poland,  during  the  last  cam campaign  paign campaign  in  that  country;  and  we  know  it  to  be  a.  positive  fact,  that  their  whole  force  between  the  Vistula  and  the  Rhine  did  not  amount  to  50,000.  1  h  that  entire  cam campaign  paign campaign  they  were  unable  to  blockade  111  e  small  fortress  of  Colberg,  the  garrison  of  which  were  in  the  habit  of  extend extending  ing extending  their  excursions  for  more  than  50  miles  in  every  direc direction;  tion; direction;  in  one  of  which  they  picked  up  General  i'ic•roa,  who  was  afterwards  exchanged  for  &amp;yen  ea.  •  As  long  as  the  Siege  of  l)autzic  lasted,  their  offensive  operations  on  the  Vistula  discontinued  for  want  of  an  effi effie  e effie  eat  force;  active  warfare  in  that  quarter  was  not  resumed  till  the  besieging  army  had  rejoined  the  main  body.  In  like  manner  they  were  unable  to  oppose  any  thing  like  re resistance  sistance resistance  to  the  Swedish  army  of  15,000  men,  near  Stralsund  and  MoteriFat  was  obliged  to  collect  all  the  Du!ch  troops,  who  occupied  the  banks  of  the  Elhe,  the  Weser  and  the  Fees,  the  ;g  arrisons  of  Ilainhurgh,  Lubeck,  Bremen  and  lianovet,  before  he  Ives  able  to  resist  this  small  force.  We  do  not  include  in  this  statement  the  contingents  of  Ba Bavaria,  varia, Bavaria,  Wurtemberg,  and  Baden,  which  were  mnploved  in  Silesia,  and  which  may  have  amounted  to  about  40,000  men.  From  the  above  statement  it  is  clear  That  the  whole  force  of  the  enemy,  includinz  Dutch,  Italians,  and  Germans,  d  d  not  exceed  250,000  men.  What  renders  us  more  posi positive  tive positive  in  this  opinion,.  is.  its  coincidence  with  a  statement  made  by  the  Prince  of  IIonEN  v.,  in  the  autumn  of  1806.  When  war  between  Prussia  and  Francewas  thought  proba probable,  ble, probable,  he  sent  a  list  to  the  Cabinet  of  Berlin,  collected  with  191  all  the  accuracy  which  the  juncture  required,  of  the  seve several  ral several  corps  at  that  time  in  :;erienny  ;—they  amounted,  ac according  cording according  to  his  report,  to  210,000,  Italians  included.  Airy  man,  who  has  trn  yelled  through  France,  and  in  the  habit  or  making  °brae  vatic:us,  must  have  remarked,  that  scarce  a  :old.er  was  to  be  seen  in  the  interior.  The  enoiry,  at  the  period  we  allude  to,  had  not  40,000  in  the  interim,  the  greater  part  of  which  were  encamped  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Paris,  where  they  were  incessantly  •  exercised  under  the  eyes  of  llosapanTu  himself.  The  garrison  duty  at  Brest,  Touloe,  in  the  fortresses  at  Brabant  &amp;c.  was  performed  by  invalids,  or  the  new  organised  Na National  tional National  troops.  There  was  a  small  force  of  regulars  kept  at  Boulogne,  not  e  exceeding  10,000  men.  For  the  defense  of  Italy  he  has  aliNys  relied  more  on  the  terror  of  his  name,  and  the  inaekvity  of  our  councils,  than  on  any  force  he  ever  maintained  there.  That  is  proved  to  evi evidence  dence evidence  by  the  resistance  which  General  Stewart  made  there  with  his  small  corps.  We  thought  it  of  consequence  to  make  this  statement,  in  order  to  contradict  the  extravagant  accounts  which  are  current  on  this  head  ;  and  we  still  believe,  and  defy  any  one  to  contradict  on  just  grounds  our  F.  tatement,  that  the  French  effective  disposable  force,  Dutch  and  Italians  in included,  cluded, included,  does  not  exceed  300,000  men.  A  great  accession  of  strength,  it  may  be  objected,  has  been  added  by  the  late  conscription  ;  but  has  the  war  in  Spain,  the  mortality  of  a  winter  campaign,  the  rigours  of  French  service,  occasioned  no  loss  ,  equal,  at  least,  in  number,  but  superior  in  eflici efliciency,  ency, efliciency,  to  what  it  gains  by  the  conscription  of  iBO9  amid  ie.  This  ,statement,  we  hope,  will  explain  to  many  of  on:  Readers  the  relaxation  which  is  visible  in  the  policy  of  BON  APA  RTE.  The  great  body  of  his  army  is  in  Spain  ;  and  he  cannot  leithdraw  a  considerable  part  of  it  without  risk risk'  ' risk'  the  loss  of  the  Peninsula.  hence  these  sUmpluous  detail;  of  projected  operations  against  Portugal  and  Andalusia  :  but  which,  for  two  nsonths,  have  consisted  in  Mere  demon demonstration.  stration. demonstration.  Hence  the  addresses  which  pour  in  from  every  province  and  town  in  Spain;  calculated  to  overawe  Austria  into  concessions.  A  visible,  strong  anxiety,  even  an  un uncertainty,  certainty, uncertainty,  begin  to  appear  in  the  councils  of  the  tyrant.  The  supposition,  accounting  for  his  inactivity,  as  it'  he  wished  Austria  to  appear  it  the  thaiacter  of  the  aggressor  s  is  drivelling  in  the  extreme,  end  betrays  a  profound  ig ignorance  norance ignorance  of  the  moral  feeling  and  energy  of  the  indi individual.  vidual. individual.  He  knows  too  well  that  he  does  not  govern  Europe  from  opinion;—his  dominion  is  that  of  terror.  His  political  combinatons  are  not  formed  with  that  de:irate  d:scrimination,---whether  they  will  receive  the  approbation  in  a  moral  point  of  view,  of  his  cotemporaries;---their  only  object  is  success  ;  the  means  et'  atiainmeut  are  per perfectly  fectly perfectly  indifferent  ;  and  if  he  succeed,  he  is  certain  of  appro appro,  , appro,  nation;—if  he  fall,  his  apparent  moderation  will  not  gain  him  a  single  partizan,  or  yaise  a  single  ern;  in  his  support,  in  any  part  of  Europe.  He  is  not  ignorant  of  this  c-r c-r--cumstance;  -cumstance; c-r--cumstance;  and  tyeealls  of  honour,  justice  and  hurnan;'r,  the  voice  of  his  cOttroporaries,  or  the  judgment  of  rs rsterity,  terity, rsterity,  afford  a  weak  barrier  to  the  execution  of  signs  he  may  have  formed  against  Austria.  His  modera moderation  tion moderation  is  the  effect  of  weakneis;  his  justice,  of  incapacity.  But  another  letter  has  been  foisted  on  Europe,  :mother  secret  correspondence  between  the  Editors  of  the  Via  l!  a  Gazette  and  the  Hamburgh  Correspandenten.  It  s  ae aenounced,  nounced, aenounced,  however,  in  the  Paris  Journals,  with  too  sq•eien  as'servations  of  its  authenticity.  This  letter,  wuries!  of:-  ably  forged  by  the  French  Government,  throws  an  obscine  light  on  the  vacillating  sentiments  of  the  members  of  the  Rhenish  Confederacy.  It  is  apparent.  however,  that  they  apprehend,  or  are  disposed,  if  not  collectively  at  least  ia iadividually,  dividually, iadividually,  in  favour  of  Austria.  The  paragraph  of  the  letter,  which  alludes  to  that  part  of  the  Anstrian  Declara Declaration  tion Declaration  of  War  (how  the  Editor  has  got  a  sight  of  this  intend intended  ed intended  Declaration,  the  French  papers  have  not  deigned  to  ex explain),  plain), explain),  which  'denounce  vengeance  against  the'  members  of  the  league,  and  encourages  the  subjects  to  shake  off  their  allegiance—  is  calculated  to  touse  the  sluggish  121'111y  of  •7  :,  P15_TB00008 1.  MA.RCII  19.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  WI  ~!.  ,  .  i  .  and  his  hopes  of  a  happy  termination  of  the  unfortnnale  '  all  the  accuracy  which  the  juneture  required,  of  the  see-  dispute  .  .  dispute  were  more  sanguine  and  certain.  This  is  the  inva-  cal  corps  at  that  time  in  Gerneins.;—they  amounted,  ne-  '  !  riable  tone  of  consummate  villainy,  certain  of  success.  cording  to  his  report,  to  210,000,  Italians  included.  Aoy  .  •  •  It  would  be  a  hazardous  speculation  to  found  any  con-  man,  who  has  gavelled  through  France,  and  in  the  habit  jecture  on  the  increase  of  his  moderation  and  sense  of  of  making  ohrei  V  ations,  must  have  remarkaal,  that  scarce  justice  since  that  period.  Miracles  may  still  operate.  in  a  :oliler  was  to  be  seen  in  the  interior.  The  enemy,  at  ways  and  for  purposes  concealed  from  our  limited  sight  ;  the  period  we  allude  to,  had  not  40,000  in  the  interior,  .  n.,  but  if  the  heart  of  a  BONAPARTE  ha  s  become  susceptible  of  the  greater  part  of  which  were  encamped  in  the  `?'Fl  generous  or  humane  feelings,  we  loek  upon  it  as  the  most  1  ne  i  g  hb  our  h  oo  d  o  f  P  ar  i  s  ,  w  h  e  re  they  were  incessantly  .  .  extraordinary  manifestation  of  Divine  interference  ever  exercised  under  the  eyes  of  BONAPARTE  hilllSislf.  The  .  ~..  recorded  in  profane,  or  even  sacred  history.  We  do  not  garrison  duty  at  Brest,  Touloe,  in  the  fortresses  at  13rabizat  i  recollect  a  well  authenticated  instance  of  grace  operating  &amp;c.  was  performed  by  invalids,  or  the  new  organised  Na-  a'  oa  arutlian  of  his  cast,—he  is  incorrigible.  As  it  would  be  tional  troops.  There  was  a  small  force  of  regulars  kept  dangerous  to  calcu  tate  on  supernatin  ai  causes,  in  attempt-  at  Boulogne,  not,exceeding  10,000  men.  For  the  defense  1  lug  'to  explain  the  motives  of  his  acting,  we  must  endeavor  of  Italy  he  has  aliNys  relied  more  on  the  terror  of  his  to  account  for  his  present  policy  according  to  those  prin-  name,  and  the  inactivity  of  our  councils,  than  on  any  ;  ,  ciple;,  which  seem  invariably  to  have  guided  the  ambitious  force  he  ever  maintained  there.  That  is  proved  to  evi-  and  unprincipled.  •dence  by  the  resistance  which  General  Stewart  made  there  ~;  na  We  have  coiantly  insisted,  in  opposition  to  our  bro-  with  his  small  corps.  ,r.  ther  jou:lutists,  and  to  a  very  silly  and  a  very  inaccurate  We  thought  it  of  consequence  to  make  this  statement,  in  ..  ~  statement  of  LoadCASTLEREAGH,  that  the  French  military  order  to  contradict  the  extravagant  accounts  which  are  ,  force  is  not  near  so  numerous  as  is  generally  believed  and  current  on  this  head  ;  and  we  still  believe,  and  defy  any  i  ..  i  stated.  l  is  unquestionably  the  interest  of  BONAPARTE  to  one  to  contradict  on  just  grounds  our  F.  tatement,  that  the  ,  impress  a  very  formidable  opinion  of  the  strength  and  num-  French  effective  disposable  force,  Dutch  and  Italians  in-  her  of  his  armies;  but  we  cannot  possibly  conceive  what  eluded,  does  not  exceed  300,000  men.  A  great  accession  .  .  motives  could  operate  on  the  Noble  Lord  to  promote  the  of  strength,  it  may  be  objected,  has  been  added  by  the  late  I  -  views  of  the  tyrant  in  this  respect.  ilk  mis-statements  conscription  ;  but  has  the  war  in  Spain,  the  mortality  of  a  ...  must  arise  from  wilful  prevarication,  unpardonable  igno-  winter  campaign,  the  rigours  of  French  service,  occasioned  I,  ranee,  or  he  considered  it  as  a  parliamentary  ruse  de  no  loss  ,  equal,  at  least,  in  number,  but  superior  in  eflici-  .:  ..,  .  guerre,  and  therefore  Justifiable.  Whatever  his  motives  ency,  to  what  it  gains  by  the  conscription  of  1809  and  Jr.  1  may  have  been,  it  is  of  the  highest  importance  to  correct  This  .statement,  we  hope,  will  explain  to  many  of  on:-  his  error  of  judgment  or  of  design;  and  we  would  wish  to  Readers  the  relaxation  which  is  visible  in  the  policy  of  i:  •  know  his  authority  for  asserting  that  the  French  had  BONAPARTE.  The  great  body  of  his  army  is  in  Spain  ;  and  -...  ..,  ..,  .r.  400,000  men  at  their  disposal,  ready  to  pour  into  Spain  ;  i  he  catthot  withdraw  a  considerable  part  of  it  without  risk-  if  the  force  they  had  already  in  the  Peninsula,  was  Made-  I  the  loss  of  the  Peninsula.  Hence  these  sninpl  nous  details  n;  :  p  quate  to  resist  our  army.  We  know  it,  unfortunately,  of  projected  operations  against  Portugal  and  Andalusia.  :  ,  ,  'W,  .  that  he,  as  (fell  as  his  colleagues,  and,  in  fact,  every  pre-  hut  which,  for  two  months,  have  consisted  in  Mere  del11011.•  7, STYLE=superscript  vious  administration,  were  grossly  ignorant  on  a  subject  it  stration.  Hence  the  addresses  which  pour  in  from  every  was  so  much  their  duty  to  know,  and  which  they  had  the  province  and  town  in  Spain;  calculated  to  overawe  Austria  .  ,  ,  •4  •  •  •  means  of  ascertaining.  into  concessions.  A  visible,  strong  anxiety,  even  an  un-  '  .;..,  .  ,  The  French  army,  according  to  the  opinion  of  the  best  certainty,  begin  to  appenr  in  the  councils  of  the  tyren  .t.  .  ,  ~;,  :  , STYLE=superscript  s,  .....  informed  men  on  the  contineiq,  never  amounted,  for  the  The  supposition,  accounting  for  his  inactivity,  as  if  he  . STYLE=superscript  1  '  last  eight  years,  to  300,000  effective  men.  This  state-  wished  Austria  to  appear  in  the  diameter  of  the  aggressor  s  .i.  •  ...4  mem  is  corroborated  by  the  authority  or  the  Prince  o  is  drivelling  in  the  extreme,  end  betrays  a  profound  ig-  . STYLE=superscript  :  1 STYLE=superscript  ,,  NORENLORE,  and  indirectly  by  that  of  Lord  HUTCHINSON.  norance  of  the  moral  feeling  and  energy  of  the  hail-  ,  ..  ..,1  We  are  informed  that.  his  Lordship  was  of  opinion  the  victual.  Ile  knows  too  well  that  he  does  not  govern  enemy  had  not  150,000  in  Poland,  during  the  last  cam-  Europe  from  opinion  :—his  dominion  is  that  of'  terror.  '';:&#34;i•  ..  P  l  :4  '.  paign  in  that  country;  and  we  know  it  to  be  a.  positive  His  political  combinatons  are  not  formed  with  that  de:irate  ~.  ~,a,  .  ..-,  fact,  that  their  whole  force  between  the  Vistula  and  the  e:scrimination,---whether  they  will  receive  the  approbation  ..  -:1  ':',`t.,,  Rhine  did  not  amount  to  50,000.  During  that  entire  cam-  in  a  moral  point  of  view,  of  his  cotemporaries;---their  paign  they  were  unable  to  blockade  the  small  fortress  of  only  object  is  success  ;  the  means  of  a!lanoneut  are  per-  ..  , STYLE=superscript  i  -1  . STYLE=superscript  '  •  Ai  •  it'•  Colberg,  the  garrison  of  which  were  in  tln  habit  of  extend-  fee.tly  iniliflerent  ;  and  if  he  succeed,  he  is  certain  of  appro..  il'-'::,,i;::  .  I  ing  their  excursions  for  more  than  50  miles  in  every  diree-  nation;—if  he  fall,  his  aplr  relit  moderation  will  not  guil  t  .1, STYLE=superscript  e  , STYLE=superscript  lion;  in  one  of  which  they  picked  up  General  i'i  cT  o  a  ,  him  a  single  partizan,  or  aeu  e  ,  se  a  single  rm  in  his  support,  ~  :=  4.  .  who  was  afterwards  exchanged  fur  &amp;yen  ea.  •  in  any  part  of  Europe.  He  is  not  ignorant  of  this  (  - STYLE=superscript  1  - STYLE=superscript  -  .t.  '  o  . STYLE=superscript  ''  -  As  long  as  the  Siege  of  Dantzic  !,sled,  their  offensive  cumstance;  and  titfeealls  of  honour,  justice  and  hunian;'r,  operations  on  the  Vistula  discontinued  for  want  of  an  efli-  the  voice  of  his  eotemporaries,  or  the  judgment  Of  pet.  I  ''..&#34;  c  eat  force;  active  warfare  in  that  quarter  was  not  resumed  terity,  afford  a  weak  barrier  to  the  execution  of  an,-  de-  ,  ,  till  the  besieging  army  had  reioined  the  main  body.  In  signs  he  may  have  formed  against  Austria.  His  imidera-  I  i  . STYLE=superscript  .i*:.  •  like  manner  they  were  unable  to  oppose  any  thing  like  re-  tion  is  the  effect  of  weakneis;  his  justice,  of  incapacity.  !.  sistance  to  the  Swedish  army  of  15,000  men,  near  Stralsund  But  another  letter  has  been  foisted  on  Europe,  another  1  , STYLE=superscript  ,  1  1  l'.  , STYLE=superscript  and  Motermt  was  obliged  to  c  o  llect'  all  the  Dut.ch  troops,  secret  correspondence  between  the  Editors  of  the  Vireo  . STYLE=superscript  a  who  occupied  the  banks  of  the  Ellie,  the  Weser  and  the  Gazette  and  the  Hamburgh  Correspandenten.  It  ss  lc-  ,  .  -  Ems,  time  garrisons  of  Ilainhurgh,  Lubeck,  Bremen  and  nounced,  however,  in  the  Paris  Journals,  with  too  sa  . STYLE=superscript  cien  41'  ',•'Y  lianovei,  before  he  Ives  able  to  resist  this  small  force.  aa'aervations  of  its  authenticity.  This  letter,  ungtie.!  0  ::...  i  t  i  ~  ..,..  We  do  not  include  in  this  slatament  the  contingents  o  f  B  a  .  ably  forged  by  the  French  Government,  throws  an  of  segue  ~  varia,  Wurtemberg,  and  Baden,  which  were  employed  in  light  on  the  vacillating  sentiments  of  the  members  of  the  i'  s STYLE=superscript  .  ~:4'•  ...  .  -  Silesia,  and  which  may  have  amounted  to  about  40,000  Rhenish  Confederacy.  It  is  apparent.  however,  that  they  ~  ..  ..  1  1  ffr  ..  ,  men.  apprehend,  or  are  disposed,  if  not  collectively  at  leas;  ie.  1  ;).;!'.'&#34;3  , STYLE=superscript  From  the  above  statement  it  is  clear  that  the  whole  force  dividuallv,  in  favour  of  Austria.  The  paragraph  of  the  1.  :  .;.;  -.',:.  of  the  enemy,  including  Dutch,  Italians,  and  Germans,  letter,  which  alludes  to  that  part  of  the  Austrian  Declara-  •  -••,  A  .  i,,.:,.  li  dal  not  exceed  250,000  men.  What  renders  us  mace  posi-  lion  of  War  (how  the  Editor  has  got  a  sight  of  this  intend-  .  ~.Fr,i,,  tine  in  this  opinion,  is.  its  coincidence  with  . STYLE=superscript  a  statement  e  d  Declaration,  the  French  papers  have  nut  deigned  to  ex-  ,  :  -,  , STYLE=superscript  ,i.  'i  , STYLE=superscript  ...,  ..,  a  made  by  the  Prince  of  IIonENIAM  IP:,  in  the  autumn  of  1806.  plain),  which  'denounce  vengeance  against  the  meinhera  of  's;i,,  When  war  between  Prussia  and  France  was  thouelit  proha-  1  the  league,  and  encourages  the  subjects  to  shake  off  their  I  .  .  *:.  ble,  he  sent  a  list  to  the  Cabinet  of  Berlin,  collected  with  1  allegiance--  is  calculated  to  touse  the  sluggish  layalty  t,f  ;  0  ',..  i  .  1'•,,.'.  .  ii...  .  ."
