text
"T..441'  INDI.I  I.IQTSE,  Thorsday  a  General  Court  of  'Proprietors  was  held  at  the  India  if  nose,  .for  the  purpose  of  taking-  btro  consideratl  .itli  titr!  Resolutions  of  the  Court  of  Directors  on  the  ‘2.9(11  of  March.  The  husims  was  opened  by  the  Secretary',  reading  the  Ad Advertisement  vertisement Advertisement  published  in  the  morning  papers,  tOr  convening  the  General  Court,  n  Alr.  Parry,  the  Director  and  President  for  the  time  beiwr,  read  the  Resolutions  entered  into  by  the  Court  of  Directors  on  the  29th  of  March,  which  were  as  follows  ReFolved,  that  -a  Military  Secretary  be  appoimed  for  conduct conducting  ing conducting  the  Military  Correspondence  With  India,  frith  the  Salary  of  1030/.  per  antuttn.  Htsolved,  That  two  Assistant  Secretaries  he  appointed  in  the  department  of  the  Examino,tor  of  India  Correspondence,  node:.  the  superintoodance  of  the  Examinator,  each  with  the  salary  of  600!.  per  annum.  Awl  also,  to  consider  of  confirming  the  Resolution  of  the  Court  of  Directors,  for  forming  a  seminary  for  the  - STYLE=superscript  education  of  Cadebi  for  the  Artillery  and  Engineer  torps  in  the  Company's  service,  instead  of  such  cadets  being  eti.tiented  at  the  /;pyal  MilitaryAca4  detny  at  Woolwich,  as  heretof  ore;  .  and  of  the  appointment  of  Colonel  Mudge  to  be  the  Examiner  of  these  Cadets,  with  the  allowance  of  204.  per  diem,  and  of  the  appointment  of  a  Pro Professor  fessor Professor  of  Oriental  Languages  %,,10  the  salary  of  300/.  per  annum,  Before  the  first  Resolution  was  pu  Court,  Mr.  Jackson  moved,  that  t:  Committee  of  Correspondence,  forme  which  point  out  the  lICCC3Sity  of  such  Military  Secretary,  should  be  real  logly.  The  first  resolution  was  then  con  P6_TB00012 it  for  the  continuation  of  the  he  ditt'ereot  Reports  of  the  leriy  lard  before  the  Court,  'h  an  appointment  as  that  of  which  was  done  accord-  ifirrned  unanimously,  as  wo  APRIL  9.  also  the  seconil,  for  the  appointment  of  two  .  Assistant  Secreta Secretaries  ries Secretaries  in  the  Office  of  the  Esaminator.  The  last  RCSOILII4III  was  then  put  from  the  Chair,  when  Mr.  3  ackson  propp=ed  an  Amendment,  for  the  purpose  of  making  it  binding  on  Colonel  Mudge,  to  render  an  account  it  least  once  a  rear  to  the  Court  of  Director,,  of  the  progress  of  the  pupils  of  the  new  seminaries  in  their  cespective  studies,  whicb,  together  wtth  the  original  motion,  after  some  observa observations  tions observations  from  Mr.  Lowndes,  Mr.  Twining,  Mr.  Rock,  and  Mr.  Scott,  was  carried  unanimously.  The,.  question  of  adjourineut  was  then  put,  when  Mr.  hock,  called  the  attention  of  the  Court  to  the  Reiolu-  Cons  entered  into  by  the  Court  some  da  .  vs  since  with  respect  to  Mr,.  Thelluson.—There  was  one  among  those  Resolutions  which  had  made  a  great  Impression  upon  his  mind.  Ile  meant  that  which  related  to  the  appointment  of  several  young  men  as  cadets,  which  had  been  obtained  by  a  certain  influence,  as  ap appeared  peared appeared  on  the  evidence  before  the  Select  Committee.  lie  wished  to  know  whether  the  Directors  meant  to  come  to  any  Resolu Resolution  tion Resolution  upon  that  subject,  and  whether  that  Hesolut  ion  would  take  effect  without  submitting  the  propriety  of  such  a  measure  to  the  approbation  of  the  Court  of  Proprietors.  The  President  not  giving  any  information  upon  this  subject,  Mr.  Lowndes,  Mr.  Scott,  Mr.  Twining,  Mr.  Jackson,  and  Nlr.  El  phinstone,  severally  expressed  it  as  their  opinion,  that  it  was  incompetent  for  the  Court  to  pronounce  any  decision  upon  this  tatbject  at  present,  deficient  as  it  was  in  the  nece-sary  iuforma iuformatiou  tiou iuformatiou  with  respect  to  the  abuses  complained  of.  They  ex  pressed  their  determination,  however,  to  discuss  the  matter  fully  and  fairly  nu  the  earliest  opportunity  that  presented  itielf.  The  Court  adjourned  at  three  o'clock."
