text
"ARMY  ESTI7IIATES.  The  St.cnr.T  tRV  at  WAR  called  the  attention  of  the  Com Committee  mittee Committee  to  the  remaining  Army  Estimates,  and  stated,  that  though  he  did  not  think  it  necessary  to  recapitulate  the  sums  formerly  voted  under  this  head,  he  should  be  happy,  however.  to  stnswer  any  question  respecting  them,  or  the  farther  items  he  was  nosy  about  to  submit  to  their  appmhation.  lie  would  only  remark,  with  respect  to  the  sums  formerly  voted,  that  an  increase  would  he  noticed  of  7  or  S  thousand  pounds  more  than  the  estimate  of  last  year,  for  the  pay  of  the  army.  This  increase  was  to  be  ac accounted  counted accounted  for,  from  an  additional  increase  ofthe  army,  the  regular  army  being  greater  at  present  than  it  was  last  3  ear,  and  the  Militia  more  considerable  by  not  less  than  12  or  18,000  men.—  With  regard  to  the  remaining  sums  to  be  voted,  there  were  a  few  points  of  variation  also  from  last  year.  The  estimate  for  the  Staff  or  Garrisons  would  be  necessarily  more  considerable  than  last  year.  The  sum  voted  for  this  purpose  last  year  had  come  much  short  of  the  expenditure,  on  account  of  the  foreign  service,  not  foreseen  at  the  time  of  voting  those  estimates.  In  the  allowance  for  the  Chelsea  pensioners,  there  was  a  consider considerable  able considerable  increase,  from  the  increase  of  the  persons  in  want  of  that  relief,  and  to  tbe  sum  for  widows'  pensions  there  was  also  a  small  addition,  arising  from  the  same  cause.  In  the  estimate  for  the  several  volunteer  corps,  there  was  a  decrease  of  300,0(101.  owing  to  the  considerable  decrease  that  had  taken  place  in  that  descrip.  tint;  of  force;  but  the  Local  Militia  being  a  new  and  more  ex expensive  pensive expensive  establishment  than  the  volunteers,  an  increase  of  1,200,0001.  had  heen  occasioned  on  that  account.  This  increase,  however,  to  the  whole  of  the  amount  would  not  be  an  annual  expense,  as  their  clothing,  amounting  to  400,0001.  would  last  for  four  years.  The  following  sums  were  then  voted  :  For  defraying  the  charge  of  Officers  4ef  the  Public  De-  .  partmem  .  •  L.  257,711  For  the  In  and  OM  Penbioners  of  Chelsea  and  Kil Kilmainham  mainham Kilmainham  Hospitals  492,412  For  Pensions  to  'Widows  of  Officers  49,437  Volunteer  Corps  for  Great  Britain  and  Ireland  1,000,5,0  Local  `lllitial,Xl9,Bo3  Mr.  BRAND  wished  to  know  how  the  expences  attending  the  Volunteers  were  not  diminished  from  those  of  last  year,  in  the  same  proportion  as  their  numbers  had  been  diminished  by  their  transfer  into  the  Local  Militia.  Mr.  HussitssoN  observed  in  reply,  that  this  was  in  a  great  measure  owing  to  the  circumstance,  that  the  Volunteer  Cavalry,  the  most  expensive  part  of  the  Establishment,  were  still  ke.  up;  and  that  this  year  the  expeoce  of  cloathing  the  Volum  would  be  incurred."
