text
"TTIVILSDA  V',  JAN.  12.  HIGHWAY  Rottrrn.Y.—William  Hatchman,  a  boy  of  16,  was  capitally  indicted  for  feloniously  assaulting  Anne,  the  wife  of  J.  Ficldhouse,  on  the  highway,  putting  her  in  fear  and  danger  of  her  life,  and  stealing  from  her  person  a  straw  bon bonnet  net bonnet  and  veil.  It  appeared  that  the  prisoner  struck  the  prose proseeutrix  eutrix proseeutrix  a  blow  a-;  she  was  walking  to  Pancras,  and  pulled  the  canard  and  veil  off  h-r  head.  The  robbery  was  dearly  proved,  and  the  Jury  found  the  prisoner  Guiltv—Death.  lie  was  re recommended  commended recommended  to  mercy,  in  consequence  of  a  good  character  w  hick  he  had  received  from  several  witnesses,  liyaGt.ARV.  Daniel  Ilenion  was  indicted  for  burglarinudy  stealing  a  bear  muff,  in  the  shop  of  John  Schaeider,  a  Furrier,  ►  Holborn.  It  appeared  that  some  depredator  opened  the  pro pro•,•eutor's  •,•eutor's pro•,•eutor's  shop  door  about  six  o'clock  on  the  evening  of  the  of  January  last,  and  carried  off  a  hark  bear  muff,  which  stout;  in  the  wind.sw.  A  cry  of  stop  thief  was  instantly  raised,  and  the  prisoner  was  seen  to  run  past  the  door.  Mr.  Ellin,  a  Cheese Cheesemonger,  monger, Cheesemonger,  in  Holborn,  who  happened  to  be  going  past  at  the  time,  seized  the  pi  isoner,  and  gave  him  in  charge  to  an  officer.  It  did  not  appear  that  the  propert  v  was  fonnd  upon  him  after  it  had  heenstolen,  awl  the  le:lined  Judge,  Chambre,  was  of  opinion  that  the  evidence  had  not  proved  the  identity  of  the  prisoner.  The  Jury  instantly  acquitted,  the  prisoner.  Daniel  Geary  was  found  guilty  of  stealing  a  cbesnut  gelding,  the  property  of  William  Cockhill.  FRIDAY,  JAN.  13.  BAIM  FORGERY.-3olin  Nicholls  was  indicted  for  attiring.  a  forged  ail,  note,  with  intent  to  defraud  the  Governor  and  Company  of  the  Bank  of  England.  The  detail  of  the  neces  sary  evidence  occupied  the  Court  the  whole  morning,  but  the  facts  of  'the  case  may  he  detailed  in  a  short  compass.  On  the  10th  December  last,  Vincent  Alessi,  an  Italian  offered  a  bank  note  . STYLE=superscript  in  payment  for  two  bottles  of  wine,  to  a  perdu  of  the  name  of  Taylor,  resident  in  Holborn.  The  note  on  enquiry  turned  out  a  bad  one,  and  Alessi  was  immediately  taken  into  custody.  He  then  disclosed,  that  he  purchased  the  note  in  question  from  the  prisoner  Nicholls,  who  resided  at  Birmingham  ;  and  the  account  he  gave  of  the  transaction  was,  that  being  at  Birmingham,  to  buy  plated  goods,  to  carry  with  him  to  Spain,  the  person  with  whom  he  dealt  produced  a  1/.  note,  and  asked  him  if  he  would  buy  any  of  those  articles,  and  said  he  would  introduce  him  to  the  Maker.  Accordingly  in  the  evening  he  was  introduced  to  the  Prisoner  Nicholls,  and  he  bought  some  notes  of  him.  It  was  then  agreed,  if  he  wanted  any  more  he  was  to  write  for  them  under  the  name  of  candlesticks.  He  ad added  ded added  that  the  Prisoner  had  been  in  town,  and  sold  him  the  note  which  he  fr.d  tendered  at  his  lodgings,  at  the  Lemon  Tree  in  the  Hay-market.  In  order  to  confirm  the  truth  of  this  story,  it  was  settled  between  the  officers  and  him,  that  he  was  to  write  to  the  Prisoner  for  a  fresh  supply,  and  to  invite  the  Prisoner  to  come  to  town  with  them,  for  which  he  offered  him  two  guineas  as  the  expellee  of  his  jour journey.  ney. journey.  He  accordingly  wrote  for  20  candlesticks,  No.  5,  meaning  5/.  notes,  and  two  dozen  ditto,  No.  1,  meaning  one  pounds.  To  this.letier  he  received  an  answer  that  the  Prisoner  was.  to  be  in  town  on  a  certain  day.  It  was  then  further  concerted  that  the  offiurs  should  be  in  an  adjoining  room  in  waiting,  from  which  then  conld  see  through  a  hole  in  the  partition,  and  as  soon  as  •  Alessi  had  ascertained  that  the  prisoner  had  got  the  notes  about  him,  he  was  to  put  on  his  hat,  as  a  signal  to  the  officers.  The  pri prisoner  soner prisoner  arrived  at  the  Lemon  Tree  as  appointed,  and  Alessi  met  hi;»  in  the  club-room,  Foy,  the  officer,  and  three  of  his  com com:%.des  :%.des com:%.des  were  ready  planted  in  the  adjoining  room  :  Alessi  and  the  i  •risnner  entered  into  conversation,  and  on  the  appointed  signal  the  officers  rushed  into  the  room  and  seized  the  prisoner.  'they  F  mired  him,  and  found  20  five-pound  notes,  24  of  one  ditto,  and  4  of  two,  all  of  which  proved  to  he  forged,  and  front  the  sante  plate.  The  whole  of  these  facts  were  probed  by  Alessi,  and  , STYLE=superscript  confirmed  by  the  officers  and  the  other  witnesses.  The  Jury  found  the  Prisoner  Guilty.  Alessi  was  himself  indicted,  but  the  Bank  offered  no  evidence  against  hini,  for  the  purpose  of  making  him  a  witness  against.  the  Prisoner.  P14_TB00010 •,~"
