text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  be  objected  that  the  virtues  of  the  present  monarch  preclude  every  possibility  of  an  undue  exercise  of  the  monstrous  influence  which  a  variety  of  circumstances  has  placed  at  the  disposal  of  government.  This  we  would  fondly  believe;  hut  political  in institutions  stitutions institutions  were  not  calculated  on  the  virtues  and  moderation  of  men,  but  on  their  vices  atid  violence  ;  and  whatever  security  we  may  have  in  the  principles  of  the  present  Sovereign,  it  is  neces necessary  sary necessary  to  take  precautions  against  his  successois,  as  well  as  servants  and  advisers.  it  is  therefore  become  a  matter  of  ur urgent  gent urgent  necessity  to  have  some  countcrpoie  against  the  accumulat accumulating  ing accumulating  evil,  which  is  already  so  immense  Ls  to  render  almost  nugatory  the  other  broaches  of  the  Constitution.  This  can,  '  'nit!)  the  greatest  safety  be  found  in  an  indepeudant  House  of  Commons  :  For  it  is  dangerous  to  appeal  frequently  to  the  people—they  are  the  last  resort—from  their  tribunal  there  is  no  further  appeal.  It  has  been  frequently  repeated,  whenever  this  great  question  has  been  started,  that  ex  periments  and  inno innovations  vations innovations  in  political  institutions  should  he  attempted  with  ex extreme  treme extreme  anxiety  and  caution.  We  acknowledge  the  justice  of  this  observatiott  ;  but  ho;ovation  is  alt  aimed  at  ;  only  a  laudable  isle  evinced  to  bring  back  things  to  their  primitive  form;  mu:  so  far  from  attenspCng  aay  dangerous  experiment,  it  goes  to  prevent  the  possibility  or  necessity  of  it,  by  re-estzl!slishin4  the  Constitution  in  its  original  purity.  Those  who  oppo-e  this  salu salutary  tary salutary  measure,  are  no  friends  to  the  present  establishment,  and  can  have  no  sincere  desire  to  maintain  it  ;  for  if  the  present  abuses  Continue  to  accumulate,  -the  period  is  nut  far  remote,  when  we  shall  possess  neither  establishment  nor  coturtr.  It  was  consti constitutional  tutional constitutional  principles  and  an  as  dent  love  of  libFrty,  which  placed  the  present  family  on  the  throne  ;  and  the  same  causes,  if  al allowed  lowed allowed  to  exist,  w  ill  pres.2rve  them  on  it,  in  spite  of  internal  and  external  opposition.  A  dreadful  crisis  is  rapidly  approaching  when  the  concentrated  Onergies  of  the  el.nuion-wealth  will  be  requisite  to  resist  its  violence.  Nobody  ,vill  have  the  courage,  we  believe,  to  deny,  that  a  trial  awaits  u,,  snore  arduows  . STYLE=superscript  and  unprecedented,  than  fell  ts  the  lot  of  any  modern  people.  Other  nations,  more  popu populous,  lous, populous,  and  whose  institittionsl  th  ere  more  warlike,  have  not  been  able  to  oppose  a  sno  , STYLE=superscript  nentary  resistance  to  the  cat:smite.  In  at attempting  tempting attempting  to  account  for  the  disaster;  of  our  ne:ghbouri,  an  tnia tnianimity  nimity tnianimity  of  sentiment  se;'nr;  to  prevail,  at  I;  apt  in  this  country,  they  originated  in  the  torpor  of  the  people,  in  consequence  of  the  abuses  of  their  (  h  A  population  of  fourteen  ho  ardently  love  their  country  and  institutions;  who  arc  taught  to  cstisnate  their  advantages  ;  who  know,  from  expe experience,  rience, experience,  their  practical  vdue,  will  never  he  reduced  to  the  ne necessity  cessity necessity  of  contending  with  snenemy  on  their  own  soil  ;  for  no  invader  will  be  guilty  of  the  temerity  of  encountering  such  a  - STYLE=superscript  onion  of  force  and  will.  Bo  N  PA  ave.  has  prostrated  the  na naions  ions naions  and  grivernments  of  the  earth  at  his  feet,  beca  tv4-  the  ema,  culating  effects  of  corruption  hail  di:  rinsed  among  them  a  general  languor  and  impotence.  In  our  schools  every  line  we  read  in informed  formed informed  its  of  the  prodigies  perforated  by  communities  animated  with  a  love  of  liberty  ;  anal  in  our  manhood,  v.  Uh  all  the  benefit  of  reflection  and  experience,  we  seem  to  be  ignorant  of  what  every  school-boy  knows.  lf  our  menwy  he  so  defective,  let  us  wince  more  have  reconNe  to  our  books,  ant:  they  will  tell  us  how  invincible  the  ltionans  mere  in  the  inlancy  of  their  institutions,  when  their  population  aril  v•rritory  lvcre  a.  limited,  as  their  en eninusiasiie  inusiasiie eninusiasiie  pas,ion  for  their  country  was  uncircumscribed  ;  they  will  likewise  teach  tri  the  important  les.on,that  the  same  people,  &gt;tuastera  or  the  world,  but  siaves  to  a  tyrant  at  home,  were  un unable  able unable  to  oppose  a  hor:le  of  half-armed  barbarians,  as  soon  as  slavery  had  unnerved  their  arms,  and  rendered  them  indifferent  to  fix  inspiring  name  of  country.  If  we  are  ttiiliog,  thrive:me,  to  escape  the  disasters  which  hope  ove:•by  helm  d  1  urope  ;  if  we  Oink  our  indepenJence  and  law  wort  i  pre•ery  log  ;  if  v.  e  wish  to  create  eacrgies  propor proportionate  tionate proportionate  to  flee  dillie  ohics  That  are  ready  to  assail  us—it  is  neve,  'iffy  to  impress  uu  toe  militia  and  hearts  of  the  i;reat  /a)dy  of  the  APRIL  9,  people,  that  the  superiority  of  their  institutions  is  so  transceia transceiadant,  dant, transceiadant,  that  they  will  willingly  submit  to  every  sacrifice,  in  order  to  maintain  them.  To  produce  this  impression,  nothing  more  is  requisite  than  to  reform  the  abuses  which  disfigure  them  ;  aryl,  we  hope,  that  the  attention  of  the  Legislature,  after  the  present  recess,  will  be  immediately  directed  to  this  great  and  salutary  operation.  As  soon  as  that  event  has  re-established  confidence  and  union,  and  the  same  enlightened  policy  has  removed  the  dis discontent  content discontent  of  our  Irish  Brethren—then  great  Britain  will  become  once  more  what  it  formerly  had  been—the  terror  zald  envy  of  the  world."
