text
"?fit  'NATIONAL-  Afittit  43.-  •  V  t  6  - STYLE=superscript  14  N  %,MAncn  —T  he  prepai  a  t  ions  ft,H-  de  fence  si  i  son sonthine.  thine. sonthine.  Inllungary  the  5‘..?  comities  not  only  furnished  the  incur incurrerrtion  rerrtion incurrerrtion  v,  ith  the  troops  required,  but  even  voluntarily  organise  still  more  troops.  1n  beside's  the  insurrection,  600.  Cavalry  athi  two  battalions  of  infantry  have  been  supplied.  Usher  counties  have  set  a  like  example.  Also  the  thief  Nobilitv  and  Magnates  have  equipped  troopt.nt  their  own  ex  pence.  STR  R  GU,  APRIL  4.—This  day  the  Prince  of,  Neuf Neufchatel  chatel Neufchatel  arrived  here.  His  Imperial  Majesty  a.  1 STYLE=superscript  ,3  soon  expect expected  ed expected  here.  It  is  said  that  the  head-quarter,;  of  the  grand  army  of  Germany  will  fora  time  be  established  here.  Gen.  Bertrand,  the  Ernperrer's  Adjutant,  arrived  here  on  the  Ist.  ULM,  Ain  i  t  6.—There  are  great  movements  in  the  army  of  the  Duke  of  l  ivoti.  A  part  marches  from  this  neighbourhood  to  the  Tyrol,  another  passes  by  the  Denanworth  to  the  Is'er,  mid  several  regiments,  cannou,  &amp;c.  are  convey  ing  by  the  Danube  tb  Lower  Bavaria.  MUNICH,  APFIII,  s.—Travellers  from  Saltzbwrgh  bring  the  concurrin;  report,  that  the  Aw4rian  forces  have  so  increased,  that  in  that  town,  the  population  of  which  does  not  exceed  11,01)0,  more  than  '20,000  troupe  are  collected,  and  in  the  neightmuring  country  about  30,0a0  are  quartered.  .  •  It  11U11.GTI.  APRIL  formidable  Austrian  Army  in  advaaci  in;  against  tlio  liavariaii  frontiers.  A  courier  mho  left  Possau  early  Yesterday.  has  brought  intelligence,  th:.:l  no  hostihlies  have  yet  taken  place.  259  PR  I  VATI.  LET  I'  La  OM  SPAIN.  CA  DTZ,MA  RCIf  23.  On  the  lSth  instant,  the  French  passed  the  l'agits  at  the  Puente  del-  ArLohispo,  and  Almarez,  to  the  tinnih:r  of  ;10,000  men.  At  the  moment  of  thc  ;111;!ck,  El  Puente  was  deferded  by  6;100  men,  who  were  turned  by  the  hostile  army,  which  forced  its  way  in  spite  of  their  resistance.  Cuesta  then  retreated  with  his  whole  arm  . STYLE=superscript  ..,  in  the  best  order,  and  w  ithout  losing  a  single  man.  AccordinK  to  the  dispatches  of  to-day,  he  (Cuesta)  is  at  Truxillo,  but  wi'th  the  imention  of  retreating  furtheayshould  the  enemy  contioue  to  ad  vahco,  and  of  uniting  himself  with  our  regiments  of  marine,'  which  w  ma  aging  towards  hiin,  and  the  King's  s STYLE=superscript  regrment,  and  that  of  Villavicinsa  (hhth  cavalry)  which  having  been  inhumed  hal  left  ties  ille  on  the  same  destina destination.  tion. destination.  There  hate  übio  gone  nut  to  incorporate  themselves  w  i  tit  Citesta's  arm  v,  another  real  p-  latrlv  equiped  at  Seville,  as  well  as  at  Badh,ioz  :  po  that  in  a  few  days  we  may  expect  to  count  41,000  fighting  men.  The  army  or-  La  111  ncha,  t.nder  the  eh  in inmand  mand inmand  of  UrhiLet,  n  hose  head  quarters  nee  rt!  Valdrpf  , STYLE=superscript  nas,  march marchra4l.lly  ra4l.lly marchra4l.lly  towards  Toledo,  ih  nrder  to  fall  upon  the  rear-;.;ttird  of  tie  enemy.  The  van-,:thtrd  cotopncs.d  of  •1001  cavalr  . STYLE=superscript  ..•  tied  the  same  number  of  light  trohns,  under  the:comma  ul  of  .11hur .11hurtitwrntte,  titwrntte, .11hurtitwrntte,  was,  w!  el  the  last  tli-patches  arri‘ed  f  ont  thence,  within  six  leagues  of  Tolohlo  ;  and  in  this  city  the  cnetuv  had  concentrate:l  their  whole  forces  - STYLE=superscript  e:  , STYLE=superscript  :cept  the  horly  w  hie%  was  t  advance  against  Cuesta,  amounting  in  all  to  men,  there  not  remainiag  inure  than  :  - STYLE=superscript  .:009  at  Matirld,  and  '..000  at  Ara  nez.  15  rhina  has  in  alt  3  ).000  ;  hut  lie  and  Cat  - STYLE=superscript  sta  posse..;s  a  greater  'mintier  Of  iheo  th,ut  the  eneinv„,  a  greater  number  are  without  arms;  hence  they  are  re:lured  to  remaining  in  the  rear,  till  an  action  takes  place,  when  they  endeavour  to  seizehmskeis  from  the  deal,  the  woinnied,  and,  if  possible,  from  prisoners.  In  this  state  of  thio  :  .  , STYLE=superscript  ,s,  and  tnnwing  the  activity  which  pre prevails  vails prevails  as  to  the  arming  . STYLE=superscript  an  OrZani  Zing;  t  fle  arllliCF,  we  fear  nothing,  and  have  the  greatest  confident  e  that  we  shall  see  the  enemy  driven  back.  was  after  his  derihg  attem  W  ?it  to  surprise  Barce Barcelona,  lona, Barcelona,  which  as  frustrated  by  the  treachery'  of  'come  of  his  o!licers,  and  after  having,  forced  a  passage  through  the  hostile  army  which  surrounded  him,  though  with  , STYLE=superscript  ireat  loss,  has  ret  !ru !rued  ed !rued  to  the  head-quarters  at  Tarrenona,  where  Blake  is  to  jein  him  with  the  division  which  Laran  formerly  commanded,  and  Which  has  now  been  eta  rusted  to  him.  The  spirit  of  the  people  -remains  the  same;  things  go  well,  anal  they  will  persist  t;1  the  ;  end  is  gained,  thotn:h  at  the  price  of  e;reat  sacrifices.  The  in interior  terior interior  provinces  occupied  by  the  eminiy  are  at  open  war  with  him;  he  commits  his  accuinstarett  cruelties,  hot  nothing  deters  the  people:  - STYLE=superscript  he  practices  his  usual  fraials  artifices,  but  even  these  are•of  no  ave:l.  In  Cialliela  Asthria  affairs  aro  ~rowi ~rowing  ng ~rowing  very  serious  for  them,  and  the  rtitlians  ltnaw  not  what  to  do.  Their  arinies  are  dhnitilliing  considertthlv,  while  oars  encreaseevery  day,  and  are  learning  the  art.  of  •  war.  This  is  our  real  situation,  mid  I  von  to  helieve  nothine;  t  the  con contrary  trary contrary  ;  for  1  have  purposely  delayed  writing  till  now.  that  I  might  send  you  nothing  which  I  had  not  thyself  observed  and  reflected"
