text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  170  through  Mrs.  Clarke.  The  Honourable  Gentleman  then  pro proceeded  ceeded proceeded  to  state,  that  the  Resolution  which  he  shotdd  propose  to  the  HfillE''.!,  would  embrace  the  two  points  to  which  he  had  aLtuded  ie  the  course  of  his  speech;  That  in  the  room  . STYLE=superscript  of  the  examination  which  this  ;Louse  has  taken  of  the  charges  submitted  to  them  ogainst  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  York,  this  House  has  obsel  ved,  with  deep  regret,  that  in  consequence  of  a  connection  'mmoral  as  it  was  unbecoming,  an  interference  and  correspondence  in  vniftary  affairs  had  taken  place.  which  kns  giveu  colour  and  etlect  to  an  influence,  real  or  supposed,  most  highly  prejudicial  to  himself  and  to  the  :11r.NVIHTBRE  AD  said,  there  were  some  points,  in  the  speech  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  to  which  he  wished  to  state  kis  objections.  The  Right  Himourable  Gentleman  had  scouted  all  appeOl  to  the  people.  This  came  with  a  very  ill  grace  from  the  Coascellaeof  the  Exchequer—the  very  same  man  who,  in  tbe  memory  of  the  greater  part  of  that  House,  had  appealed  from  the  sense  of  Parliament  to  that  of  the  people  I  Another  Point  urged  by  the  Right  Honourable  Gentleman  was,  that  if  %ou  removed  the  Duke  of  York  there  was  no  one  to  succeed  him.  This  was  to  establish  a  principle,  as  practically  dangerous  RS  it  was  erroneous  in  principle.  But  how  was  the  matter  of  fad?  The  point  of  fact  was,  that  it  was  impossible  to  separate  this  Il Illustrious  lustrious Illustrious  Personage  from  the  family  to  which  he  belonged.  What  was  the  natural  inference  from  this?  Why,  that  it  was  wrong  in  principle  to  put  a  Prince,  so  near  the  throne,  into  any  effi efficient  cient efficient  and  responsible  station.  It  is  in  fact  impossible  that  the  :House  can  treat  the  Duke  of  York  like  any  other  individual— individualit  it individualit  is  impossible,  therefore,  that  in  this  and  in  all  similar  cases,  site  house  can  have  the  benefit  of  that  full  responsibility  which  is  the  hest  safe-guard  of  the  Constitution.  Ile  would  not  meddle  with  the  private  character  of  his  Royal  Highness,  we  had  all  faults  enough—he  would  here  pass  no,  and  leave  the  Duke  to  his  es,v  a  conscience.  The  point  before  the  House  was,  that  these  trans transu,rtions  u,rtions transu,rtions  of  his  Royal  highness  effectually  touched  the  State,  and  vreve  of  a  nature  told  description  which  in  all  aras  of  modern  histor.  had  been  the  rub'  of  nations.  This  %vas  a  subject  of  too  sough  itniw  mince  to  shut  our  eyes  upon.  In  the  earlier  part  of  Eris  speech,  the  Right  lion.  Gentleman  had  made  an  attack  on  at:  li  on.  Frictal  of  h  is.  That  Gentleman  (M  r.  Wardle)  had  conduct conduct.  . conduct.  3  hot:  -elf  with  equal  candour  and  manliness;  and  the  Country  would  lung  entertaio  a  grateful  sense  and  a  grateful  memory  of  the  services  of  that  Gentleman.  The.  Chancellor  of  the  Ex  che chegoeriliad  goeriliad chegoeriliad  sneered  likewise  at  the  manner  in  which  the  resolutinas  had  been  fronted,  and  had  suggested,  that  cooler  heads  than  the  lion.  Gentleman's  had  been  employed  in  drawing  them  up.  He  could  not  misunderstand  this  allusion,  which  was  evidently  in intended  tended intended  for  him.  He  had  indeed  known  the  Honourable  Gentleman  (Mr.  Wardle)  in  very  early  life,  but  they  had  been  separated  by  the  different  course  of  their  *waiver  yeats,  and  he  believed  that,  till  the  present  Session,  he  had  not  seen  him  for  twenty  years.  fin  the  beginnin;  of  the  Session,  the  Honourable  Gentleman  had  certainly  informed  him,  that  he  had  such  charges  tit  bring  against  the  Duke  of  York.  To  this  he  had  replied,  by  advising  him  most  earnestly  to  think  of  what  lie  was  about,  and  suggested  to  him,  from  his  own  experience,  the  heavy  loss  of  sine,  the  an  iety  b  3  night  and  by  day,  which  must  necessarily  attend  on  undertnkings  of  this  nature.  Ile  (Mr.  Whitbread)  had  then  pledged  himself,  that  he  would  most  certainly  attend  in  his  seat  en  the  motion,  and  3,  - STYLE=superscript  out/i  second  him  in  Motion.  From  that  time  to  the  present.  he  had  only  seen  accide!naily  in  the  street.  He  had  no  hesitation  to  say,  tin  it  gasais  decided  opinion  that  his  Royal  Highness  the  Dui  e  of  York  was  guilty  of  a  direct  pri-ity.  He  did  not  think  that  he  had  participated  in  any  money,  but  be  eras  clearly  of  opinion  that  he  knew  that  'ovary  had  hen  ta!;ert,  ;:ad  therefore  that  he  was  guilty  of  a  corrupt  privity.  His  Honourable  Friend  had  pursued  that  line  of  conduct  from  his  own  mind,  which  if  he  had  done  him  (Mr.  Whitbread)  the  honour  to  consult  him,  he  should  corrainly  Lave  ised  him.  lie  had  tampered  justice  with  the  cOnsider:ition  which  was  due  to  the  feelings  of  a  father.—He  ;tad  co!,•  :•Ilt.i.rt  at  once  what  the  interests  of  the  Country  required,  and  what  the  Wow  . STYLE=superscript  t  - STYLE=superscript  ,,t);:  of  the  Accused,  and  the  exalted  stature  of  his  connectin  seemed  to  suggest.  Under  this  impression,  he  certainly  not  be  backward  in  his  own  duty.  It  might  give  him  pain,  but  he  would  discharge  it  to  the  utmost.  The  House  stood  in  on  awful  situation  before  the  conntrv,  and  though  the  Right  lionaorable  Gentleman  opposite  f  Mr.  Perceval),  might  deem  it  prudent  to  scout  the  opinion  of  tt.e  Puhlie,  he  for  one  thatight  it  his  duty  to  show  some  respect  for  his  coosti  tows,  tt4ave  some  deference  for  public  opinion.  'lite  lion.  Gentleman  !SU  taken  upon  himself  the  task  of  over overt  t overt  :!rning  the  testiniony  of  the  witnesses  one  by  one,  and  then  ob obrects  rects obrects STYLE=superscript  to  them  adallither  ;  aud  asserts,  that  the  evidence  of  Mrs.  MA  RCH  12.  Clarke  is  not  to  be  believed  from  the  'rause  of  her  life  ;  if  these  classes  of  women  a  ere  to  he  discredited  merely  irate  their  up upfortunate  fortunate upfortunate  situation,  it  would  be  hard  indeed.  It  is  '•••,  because  one  has  been  guilty  of  misconduct,  that  therefore  the  whole  class  is  to  be  coudemned  ;  if  this  were  to  he  the  -Ise,  w:.at  would  become  of  the  captains,  after  the  conduct  of  Capta:a  Huxley  Sandon  ;  and  what  would  become  of  the  generela  after  the  conduct  of  General  Clavering,  who  certainly  had  done  no  credit  to  any  class  of  society  ?  The  conduct  of  that  unfortunate  class  to  which  Mrs.  Clarke  was  stated  to  helang,  though  sometimes  erroneous,  did  not  disqualify  them  from  telling  the  truth  ;  nor  is  there  one  of  them,  though  they  had  forfeited  their  virtue,  whose  evidence  would  not  be  sufficient  to  co::  ict  any  man  of  perjury  in  a  court  of  justice.  The  Hon.  Gentlenans  had  also  endeavoured  to  stigmatize  the  charaeter  of  the  woman,  in  stating  that  she  was  all  along  actuated  in  her  conduct  by  ma malice  lice malice  and  revenge.  It  was  certainly  not  very  unnatural  to  sttp,  pose  after  the  treatment  she  had  met  with  from  the  Duke  of  York,  who  had  discarded  and  ill-ased  her,  end  pecu pecuniary  niary pecuniary  transactions  did  not  act  in  a  way  most  cred:  tp.h:s;  ta  him himself,  self, himself,  that  she  would  take  the  first  opportunity  at  retaliating.  His  Honourable  Friend  had  certainly  argatai  vary  reason reasonably  ably reasonably  on  the  separation.  The  Honourable  Gent!  luau  hacj  stated  that  she  had  made  a  claim,  through  Mr.  A  ,!  - STYLE=superscript  La.,  :o  the  Duke  of  York,  for  her  pension,  and  that  she  said,  if  di  i  yen  Ley  necessity,  she  mast  have  recourse  to  this  which  she  stated  to  he  as  unpleasant  to  her  as  to  the  I)uk..  of  . STYLE=superscript  *::ork.  It  must  be  confessed  that  the  provocation  aas  k:it,  but  in  the  course  of  conversation  with  many  persons,  it  wasnatural  to  suppose,  she  would  mention  her  grievance,  and  it  would  course  be  retailed  from  month  to  mouth,  and  it  would  at  length  he  conveyed  back  to  the  ears  of  his  tto'  al  Highness.  And  it  wos  not  at  all  improbable,  that  there  were  many  persons  who,  on  being  informed  that  she  was  in  possession  of  some  letters  of  the  Duke  of  York  would  have  been  ready  to  advance  her  I  MO!.  for  the  pur purchase  chase purchase  of  them,  and  her  reccasi:ies  tseuld  have  hcea  Er  a  lieved.  It  did  not  appear,  however,  that  she  had  heen  (.o  de determined  termined determined  in  her  plan  of  vengeance.  It  was  well  Llama  that  when  she  lived  at  Hampstead,  that  instead  of  conce•  tiog  any  plan  of  revenge,  she  burnt  innumerable  letters  from  the  Duke  to  herself,  and  sent  down  others  to  Nicholls,  in  order  to  light  his  tire  ;  from  this  it  did  not  appear  that  she  had  laid  a  very  dos!)  plan  of  revenge.  lie  was  ready  to  allow,  that  when  she  ap appeared  peared appeared  at  the  Bar  of  the  House,  she  had  evinced  a  considerable  degree  of  ability,  of  flippancy,  of  spirit,  of  elfronter)  . STYLE=superscript  .,  and  of  impudence;  )et  when  she  was  examined  for  three  whole  hours  by  the  Solicitor  and  Attorney  Generals,  ;:he  Wiled  them  all,  and  gave  her  testimony  in  a  clear  and  con connected  nected connected  style,  although  she  was  treated  with  a  g.-cater  de degree  gree degree  of  roughness,  and  was  shown  less  indulgence  than  any  other  witness  who  had  been  examined.  It  came  out  that  she  had  had  transactions  with  Gen.  Claverin  and  Dr.  o':,leara.  When  Gen.  Clavering  had  written  a  letter  to  the  Attorney  Gene General,  ral, General,  desiring  to  he  called  to  the  Bar  as  an  evidence  to  impeach  the  testimony  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  he  should  at  least  have  conic  with  clean  hands  ;  hut  in  order  to  prove  Mrs.  Clarke's  falsehood,  he  ce:'erred  to  her  own  evidence  with  respect  to  himself,  and  denied  th.it  he  had  ever  applied  to  her  for  any  military  command,  Th::  t  she  should  mention  the  name  of  Dr.  O'Meara,  a  protestant  elergyman,  as  a  person  for  whom  she  was  to  use  her  influence.  aas  considered  by  the  Right  Hon.  Gentleman  as  a  libel  not  to  be  credited,  and  as  a  sufficient  ground  for  discharging,  the  wit witness  ness witness  from  the  bar  as  unworthy.  Fortunately,  however,  for  the  establishment  of  her  assertion,  Gen.  Claveriig  came  to  the  bar,,  and  those  letters,  uf  the  existence  of  which  she  knew  nothing,  acre  produced,  and  the  letters  which  had  been  given  by  her  to  Nichols  to  be  destroyed  were  brought  forward.  Amongst  them  was  a  letter  from  Gen.  Clavering.  in  his  own  hand-writing,  which  proved  in  characters,  black  as  Erchns,  the  falsehood  of  hisassertion  and  the  vanity  of  his  attempt  to  invalidate  the  testi testimony  mony testimony  of  NI  rs.  Clarke.  There  was  also  a  letter  frop  the  Arch Archbishop  bishop Archbishop  of  Tuam,  recommending  Dr.  O'Meara  to  the  notice  of  his  Royal  Highness,*  and  requesting  her  to  use  her  influence  in  the  furtherance  of  his  objects  ;  if  she  had  made  that  state statement  ment statement  in  her  evidence,  it  would  not  have  been  believed.  —The  Right  Honourable  Gentleman  stated  in  his  speech,  that  the  validity  of  'Airs.  Clarke's  evidence  was  impeached  in  twenty-eight  different  instances.  But  by  whom  was  the  first  charge  supported  ?  By  Nicholls,  who  had  already  proved  him himself  self himself  the  basest  character,  but  whose  testimony  was  of  course  un unimpeachable,  impeachable, unimpeachable,  because  it  came  in  favour  of  the  Duke  of  York.  It  appeared  that  Mrs.  Clarke  applied  to  Nicholls  several  times  for  her  letters,  which  he  as  repeatedly  refused  to  deliver  to  her,  and  would  nut  even  let  her  peruse  them  ;  and  afterwards,  when  P10_TB00006 P10_TB00007 P,"
