text
"LOSS  SUSTAINED  BY  OUR.  ARMY  IN  SPAIN.  Mr.  PONSONIir  wished  the  Noble  Lord  opposite,  to  inform  him,  whether  it  was  his  intention  to  lay  befor:  the  House  a  re•  turn  of  the  loss  sustained  by  the  British  ar►ny  in  Spain,  during  the  late  expedition  to  that  country.  Lord  CASTLERF:AGu  said  there  could  he  no  objection  to  lay laying  ing laying  the  return  before  the  House,  but  as  it  had  not  vet  been  folly  made  to  Government,  he  could  not  pissibly  condescend  upon  any  particular  day.  General  STI:W  A  ItT  rose  to  do  away  an  impression  of  a  very  unpleasant  nature,  which  had  been  made  on  the  public.  It  had  been  stated,  and  was  very  generally  believed,  that  our  loss  in  Spain  amounted  to  eight  or  nine  thousand  men.  lie  could  take  upon  himself  to  state,  that  it  did  not  exceed  half  that  number.  Mr.  Po  N  SON  UV  asked,  if  lie  alluded  only  to  the  loss  sustained  in  the  retreat,  and  at,  Comma.  General  St  W  A  During  the  w  hole  eampai  from  the  first  moment  the  British  army  entered  Spain  till  their  final  embarkati.m  at  Loesd  and  repeatcd  cheers.)  Adjourned  at  half  past  eight  rill  Thurs.day.  PROVICIALs.  CREW  OF  TUB  STA  ND.III.D.—The  following  is  an  extract  of  a  letter  front  Chatham  :  Several  false  reports  being  in  circulation,  respecting,  a  tate  visit  of  the  crew  of  the  Standard  to  Loudon,  and  their  appli application  cation application  to  the  Lords  of  the  Admiralty.  I  send  you  the  following  account,  the  correctness  of  which  you  may  depend  upon  :  Stanthird  and  Thonderer  arrived  here  together  from  the  Mediterranean;  the  Thunder's  crew  were  paid  off,  ix•ci  liberty  for  fourteen  days  ;  the  Standard's  crew  concei.iii4  they  had  aright  to  the  same  indulgence,  both  ships  having  been  on  the  same  station,  petitioned  the  Lords  of  the  Admiralty  to  that  effect,  and  their  application  was  granted.  Thinkin  g  their  Com Commander  mander Commander  was  tardy  in  complying  - STYLE=superscript  with  the  order  of  the  Lords  of  the  Admiralty,  when  called  upon,  on  Wednesday  se'imight,  to  wash  decks  and  scrub  the  ship,  they  retnsed,  and  went  aft  ia  a  body  to  the  quarter-deck  ;  they  requested  to  know  by  their  should  leave  was  kept  hack,  told  entreated  it  he  .oiroediately  granted.  The  First  Lieutenant  told  them  it  wa  , STYLE=superscript  P.  •  c:f  wail)  a  wish  (who  was  absent  on  leu%e),  that  only  a  natc;.  soon  id  ;  N  o  c  lil  and  on  their  return,  the  other  watt  - STYLE=superscript  ihould  hol.e  t,l  '  I  P7_TB00021 11  7 STYLE=superscript  (ient.  and  the  Ilouse,  that  no  rare  should  be  omitted  on  his  part  '''  '--  to  inquire  into  the  fact,  nor  anv  diliwence  wanting  to  bring  th  e  I  r.  ,  i  liberty  at  once,  an  d  on  their  return,  the  miler  wale...  shoulit  hul.e  delinquents,  if  any  there  should  be,  to  justice.  As  to  the  I  the  some  i  ndul STYLE=superscript  g  ence STYLE=superscript  '  T  he STYLE=superscript  y  &#34;'Pli  ed STYLE=superscript  in  011 STYLE=superscript  e  &#34;'Ace  , STYLE=superscript  •`  No,  ail  or  .  .  motion  undeeconsideration,  when  the  question  for  inquiry  by  a  On  Thursday  - STYLE=superscript  ,  the  whole  of  th,.  crew  %vete  granted  14  with  a  drum  and  Committee  should  be  disposed  of  days'  liberty,  but  were  not  paid  oil.  On  their  gettiug,  on  sho  r STYLE=superscript  e  I  key  he  should  mave  that  the  )formed  into  a  both',  and  marched  for  laond.iti  t•  Committee  be  a  Committee  of  the  whole  liout;e.  i  life,  and  union  jack  ti  .  ing—loany  of  the  poor  fellows  without  a  •  Mr.  WA  n  DELL  (amid  •3t  a  call  of  natne,  name  I  stale,  state!)  i  1,  farthing  in  their  pockets.  On  their  .iirriyat  at  the  Admiralty  •  1 STYLE=superscript  1  )  rose  to  state  that  the  office  he  alluded  to  tvas•  •  held  in  a  court  o  f  they  seat  their  petty  ulcers  forward,  with  a  petition  statilig  the  ~  •"
