text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  the  River  St.  Lawrence  being  frozen,  could  not  probably  be  before  June  next.  Much  had  been  said  on  the  advantages  which  this  country  would  derive  front  the  Embargo  being  raised  with  respect  to  England,  and  continued  with  res  i  t  ...et  to  France.  But  this  was  a  chimerical  measure.  The  moment  the  French  decrees  were  repealed,  ours  would  he  so  too.  But  his  Majesty  had  pledged  himself  not  to  seem  to  purchase  the  removal  of  the  Embargo,  by  an  act  of  yielding  weakness  beneath  the  dignity  of  this  country.  Lord  GREN  V  ILLE  having  made  an  able  reply,  the  House  divided,  when  the  members  stood  thus  :—Ayes,  70—Noes,  115—Majority  against  the  Motion,  .15.—Adjourned.  1101  - STYLE=superscript  SE  OF  COMMONS.  Monda  c  y,  Fe).  1  3.  The  Ilfonqe  resolved  into  a  Committee  of  Supply,  in  which  the  Bill  for  raking  1,500,000/.  by  Exchequer  Bilk,  and  for  paying  ox  1,500.00  tn.  oft  he  outstanding  Exchequer  Bills  of  last  yii.ar,  was  read  fur  the  first  time.  Tim  Di;  N.E  OF  YORK.  Mr.  MALTBY  examined  by  the  CHANCELLOR  of  the  Ex-  C  E  r  R..  —Q.  Are  you  acquainted  with  Mrs.  Clarke?  A.  Yes;  since  July,  1806.—Q.  flow  did  you  become  so  acquainted  with  •  her  A.  By  means  of  Mr.  Russel  Manners,  who  was  a  Member  of  last  Parliament,  and  who  married  my  wife's  sister.  He  in introduced  troduced introduced  me  to  Mrs.  Clarice,  whom  he  stated  to  have  great  in influence  fluence influence  with  the  Duke  of  York.  I  therefore  went  with  him  to  call  upon  her.  This  might  be  three  or  four  years  since,  about  July  or  August  1506.  Mr.  Manners,  by  his  relation  Gen.  Manners,  Last  a  reg  .  imental  account  to  settle,  which  could  only  be  done  through  the  Duke  of  York.  He  wished  therefore  to  be  well  widl  Mfrs.  Clarke.—Q.  What  had  you  to  do  in  this  transaction?  A.  I  had  accommodated  Mr.  Manners  with  various  sums  of  money,  to  the  amouat  of  about  one  thousand  pounds,  in  conse consequence  quence consequence  of  which  he  a  , STYLE=superscript  signed  over  to  me  this  regimental  account,  in  which  he  was  the  creditor  against  government.  I  wished  to  get  it  settled  if  I  could,  and  therefore  kept  well  with  Mrs.  Clarke.  —Q.  What  do  you  know  of  a  Mr.  Lodovick,  or  do  you  Ino  w  any  thin;  of  this  person?  A.  I  understood  that  Mr.  Lodo Lodovick  vick Lodovick  wanted  a  place,  a  Commissary's  place,  or  something  of  that  kind.—Q.  Who  seat  Lodovick  to  you  ?A.  Mrs.  Clarke.—  She  sent  him  to  you  to  procure  him  a  place?  A.  Yes,  to  ptit  him  in  the  way  of  And  was  any  money  deposited  in  consequence?  A.  Yes,  750/.  —Q.  Who  were  the  agents  to  wham  you  were  to  have  given  this  money,  in  the  event  ?  A.  Mr.  Tindal  was  to  have  had  the  1501.  the  other  6001.  I  don't  know  who  was  to  have  had,  except  Mr.  Lloyd.—  Q.  And  what  were  you  to  get  if  the  appointment  took  place?  A.  No Nothing  thing Nothing  at  You  had  no  other  purpose  than  merely  to  oblige.  Mrs.  Clarke?  A.  No,  I  had  no  other  purpose.—Q.  Had  you  ever  represented  yourself  to  Z?  rs  .  Clarke  as  having  any  connec connections,  tions, connections,  as  knowing  any  person,  through  whom  you  might  procure  any  appointment?  A.  Never,  I  am  sure  of  . STYLE=superscript  Did  Mr!.  Clarke  ever  apply  to  you  on  any  other  cases  of  this  kind?  A.  Yes,  for  a  gentleman  of  the  name  of  Thomson,  a  relation  of  per's.  Q.  When  were  all  these  applications  made?  A.  Since  Septem September  ber September  last.---Q.  Did  you  not  know  that  she  had  separated  from  the  Duke  at  that  time  ?  A.  No;  she  never  told  me  that  she  had.  —Q.  Do  you  not  know  that  Mrs.  Clarke  used  to  represent  you  as  the  Duke  of  Portland,  used  to  say  that  you  were  her  Duke  of  Portland  ?  A.  I  never  knew  it  till  I  heard  so  the  other  day.  Lard  ro  Lts  sTo  N  e.—Q.  When  you  found  that  Mrs.  Clarke  had  so  little  interest  to  obtain  the  situations,  for  which  she  received  your  assistance,  how  came  you  to  imagine  that  she  had  sufficient  interest  with  the  Duke  of  York  to  obtain  your  object  I  believed  she  had  still  considerable  influence  over  the  Duke,  and  was  under  his  protection.—Q.  How  many  interviews  had  you,  on  various  occasions,  with  Mr.  Tin Tindal  dal Tindal  ?  A.  I  cannot  tell,  but  a  great  many.—Q.  In  any  one  of  those  interviews  did  you  a,ic  Mr.  Tindal  through  what  channel  he  teas  to  obtain  those  appointments  ?—A.  On  one  occasion,  that  of  Mr.  Lodovick's,  I  asked  Mr.  Tindal  through  what  me medium  dium medium  he  was  likely  to  obtain  the  appointments  ;  and  he  an anowered  owered anowered  me  thrcugh  the  Wellesiev  interest,  but  he  did  not  men mention  tion mention  any  particular  person.—Q.  What  first  led  you  to  \lr.  Tin Tindal  dal Tindal  ?  A.  I  had  been  acquainted  with  him  as  a  kind  of  agent,  and  understood  he  could  obtain  appointments  under  government.  I  was  about  to  state,  that  I  had  understood  Mr.  Manners  had  received  a  letter  from  the  Duke  of  York.,  in  which  he  was  pro  nited  a  place  suitable  to  his  name  and  family.  Q.  Did  that  bare  had  lepoken  to  the  Her.  Clarke,  in  your  hearing,  ray  !B.  19,  Duke  of  York  on  the  affairs  of  Mr.  Manners  ?  A.  Did  she  ever  mention  Mr.  Manners's  business  to  ion  ?  A.  I  do  not  re recollect.—Q.  collect.—Q. recollect.—Q.  Did  you  transact  the  business  fur  Mrs.  Clarke  gratuitously,  or  did  you  expect  to  derive  any  emolument  ?  A.  I  hoped  to  get  my  account  settled.—Q.  How  long  is  it  since  you  have  given  up  the  hopes  of  the  settlement  ?  A.  About  a  mouth.  Mrs.  Clarke  was  then  called  in,  who  produced  a  packet  of  letters,  which  she  said  she  had  received  from  Mr.  Maltby,  which  she  presumed  to  he  his  hand-writing,  from  his  name  being  signed  to  them  all.  She  also  produced  two  letters  from  Mr.  Barber,  whose  hand-writing  she.  also  professed  a•knowledge  of.  She  was  then  asked  if  she  had  any  other  letters  or  papers  replied  she  had;  three  from  Col.  M`Mahott.  Lord  FOLKSTON  E  asked  her  if  she  had  any  other  papers  to  produce  ?  A.  Yes;  she  then  presented  a  letter  from  the  Arch Archbishop  bishop Archbishop  Tuam,  in  recommendation  of  Dr.  O'Mara.  This  letter,  she  stated,  was  not  directed  to  her,  but  to  the  Doctor  him.  self.  She  had  also  a  letter  from  the  Duke  of  York,  on  the  subject  of  General  Claveriag  ;  and  the  Duke  of  York's  answer  to  her  respecting  Dr.  O'Mara;  and  a  letter  from  Cu!.  Shaw,  dated  from  the  Downs,  previous  to  his  - STYLE=superscript  sailing  fur  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope,  and  soliciting  to  be  placed  on  the  half-pay  list.  Q.  Have  you  seen  the  Duke  of  York  write,  and  is  the  letter  now  •hewn  to  you  his  writiig;—A.  Yes,  I  have  seen  his  Royal  Highness  write.  This  letter  to  George  Farquhar  is  his  hand handwriting.  writing. handwriting.  Every  letter  his  Royal  Highness  addressed  to  me,  the  superscription  was  in  a  fictitious  hand,  and  directed  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  at  the  Post-Office,  Worthing,  to  be  left  till  called  for.  The  inside  of  those  letters  were  in  his  Highness's  usual  hand.—  Q.  How  did  you  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  Archbishop  of  Tuain's  hand-writing  T.  A.  I  found  the  letter  by  accident  among,  the  documents  of  Dr.  O'Mara.  Here  Mrs.  Clarke  was  ordered  to  withdraw,  when  several  letters  of  Mr.  Maltby  were  real  by  the  Clerk.  They  related  to  appointments  which  Mrs.  Clarke  undertook  to  obtain  for  dttkrent  officers,  urging  her  to  persevere  in  their  behalf  K  itb  the  Duke  of  York.  The  remainder  of  Mr.  Malthy's  letters  had  reference  to  Mr.  Barber  and  Mr.  Lloyd,  in  tire  procuration  of  a  situation  in  the  Commissariat  Department,  for  Mr.  Lodovick.  Two  or  three  letters  from  Col.  M`Mahon  to  Mrs.  Clarke  were  then  read.  The  laat  of  Colonel  11‘11ahon's  letters  declared,  his  total  in inability  ability inability  to  serve  Mrs.  Clarke  ;  but,  at  the  same  time,  he  ex expressed  pressed expressed  the  high  sense  he  entertained  of  her  manners  and  conduct,  which  demanded  nothing  but  his  respect,  and  an  assurance  of  the  good  wishes  be  entertained  for  her.  AUTHENTIC  LETTERS,  FROM  THAI  DUE  OF  ronx  TO  MRS.  CLIRNR.  August  4,  1805.  How  can  I  sufficiently  express  to  my  sweetest,  my  darling  Love,  the  delight  which  her  dear,  her  pretty  letter  gave  me,  or  how  much  I  feel  all  the  kind  things  she  says  to  me  in  it  !  millions  and  millions  of  thanks  for  it,  my  Angel  !  and  be  assured  that  my  heart  is  fully  sensible  of  your  affection,  and  that  upon  it  alone  its  whole  happiness  depends.  I  am,  however,  quite  hurt  that  my  Love  did  not  go  to  the  Lewes  Races;  how  kind  of  her  to  think  of  me  upon  the  occasion  ;  but  I  trust  that  she  knows  me  too  well  not  to  be  convinced  that  I  cannot  bear  the  idea  of  adding  to  those  sacrifices  which  I  um  but  too  sensible  that  she  has  made  to  me.  News,  my  Angel  cannot  expect  from  me  from  hence  ;  though  the  life  led  here,  at  least  in  the  family  I  am  in,  is  very  hurrying,  there  is  a  sameness  in  it  which  affords  little  subject  for  a  letter;  except  Lord  Chesterfield's  family,  there  is  not  a  single  person  except  ourselves  that  I  know.  Last  night,  we  were  at  the  play  which  went  off  better  than  the  first  night.  Dr.  O'Meara  called  upon  me  yesterday  morning,  and  delivered  me  your  letter  ;  he  wishes  much  to  preach  before  Royalty,  and  if  I  can  put  him  in  the  way  of  it  I  will.  What  a  time  it  appears  to  sae  al already,  ready, already,  my  darling,  since  we  parted  ;  How  impatiently  1  look  forward  to  next  Wednesday  se  nnight  !  God  bless  you,  my  own  dear,  dear  Love  !  I  shall  miss  the  post  if  I  add  more;  Oh  believe  me  ever,  to  my  last  hour,  your's  and  your's  Addressed  :  Mrs.  Clarke,  to  be  left  at  the  Post-Oeice,  Worthing.  66 STYLE=superscript  Sandgate,  24,  1804.  How  can  I  sufficiently  express  to  my  darling  love  my  thanks  for  her  dear,  dear  letter,  or  the  . STYLE=superscript  delight  which  the  assurances  of  her  love  give  me  ?  Oh,  my  Angel  !  do  me  justice  and  be  con convinced  vinced convinced  that  there  never  was  a  woman  adored  as  you  are.  Every  day,  every  hour  convinces  me  more  and  more  that  my  whol  happiness  depends  upon  you  alone.  What  a  time  it  appears  t  o STYLE=superscript  bu  since  we  pitrted,  and  with  what  Impatience  do  I  look  ft,r"
