text
"EXPEDITION  TO  PORTUGAL.  That  prominent  feature  of  vigour  and  decision,  which,  during  so  many  centuries  characterised  British  policy,  be begins  gins begins  to  manifest  itself  in  the  measures  of  Government.—  Another  British  Army,  conducted  by  the  miin  who  re-esta re-established  blished re-established  the  military  reputation  of  his  cc:wary  at  Vimiera,  is  preparing  to  crown  the  national  ,brow  with  new  laurels.  The  nomination  of  Sir  A  RTUU  a  Wfr:LLESLEV  to  the  chief  command  of  a  force,  whose  operations  arc  so  important,  must  command  one  unanimous  sentiment  of  approbation.  The  celerity,  boldness,  and  presence  of  mind  he  ihsplaved  during  the  short  time  be  commanded  in  Portugal,  qualify  him,  more  than  any  other  Officer  in  our  service,  to  de develope,  velope, develope,  to  their  full  extent,  the  resources  of  the  Bri British  tish British  character.  This  gallant  Officer  is  preparing  to  set  out  for  Portugal,  where  a  Ecitish  force  of  18,001)  men  is  already  collected,  which  is  to  be  joined  imme immediately  diately immediately  by  6,000  cavalry  and  about  13,000  infantry,  who  are  under  orders  for  immediate  embarkation.  The  present  situation  of  the  Continent  renders  this  measure  imperiously  urgent.—The  efforts  of  the  Portuguese  nation  and  Government  ;  the  renovated  enerry  of  I  lie  Spaniards:  the  vigorous  demonstrations  of  Austria.  and  the  arduous  difficulties  of  her  situation,  enforce  the  expediency  of  British  co-operation.  There  is  not  an  individual  so  indif indifferent  ferent indifferent  to  the  general  interest,  so  absorbed  in  the  mere  views  of  a  party,  who  must  not  feel  more  satisfacti  on  i  n  th  e  h  o  .  pour,  than  in  the  infamy  of  his  country.  Every  principle  of  interest,  as  well  as  glory,  recommend  a  more  vigorous  display  of  the  national  resources,  than  has  been  given  of  late.  Even  .detrldiou  will  not  dare  insinuate  a  doubt  of  the  superiority  of  our  soldiers  ;—they  are  every  thing thingwhich  which thingwhich  the  patriot  cart  wish.  The  country  has  been  ho honour.,l  nour.,l honour.,l  by  their  exploits  in  Portms;al  and  selin  ;  and  wheuver  haa  - STYLE=superscript  dshi:is  they  may  lia:Lt  sustained,  ur  hoc,"
