text
"LORD  kALKLA:.D.  FATAL  DUEL—Tuesday  morning,  about  nine  o'clock,  a  meeting  took  place  at  Chalk  Farm,  between  Lord  Falkland,  a  of  the  royal  navy  ,  and  --  Powell,  Esq.  of  Devonshire-pl  Lce,  They  were  attended  to  the  ground,  the  former  by  Sir  C.  Colon,  of  the  navy,  and  the  latter  by  --  Ross,  Esq.  lately  an  sheer  in  the  lith  light-dragoons.  The  distance  of  ten  paces  iecatg  stepped,  and  the  pistols  loaded  by  the  seconds,  the  parties  took  their  ground,  when,  by  etiquette,  Mr.  Powell  trim::  entitled  to  the  first  shot,  his  ball  fatally  entered  :he  right  groin  of  Lord  Falk Falkland.  land. Falkland.  The  cause  of  thisfatal  duel  arose  from  a  misuneerstandirg  that  took  place  at  Stevens's  llotel,  Bond-s  t  reet,  from  Lord  Fall..  land  addressing  Mr.  Powell  by  the  familiar  appellation  of  fogey;  on  which  the  latter  expressed  inueh  displeasure,  re remarking,  marking, remarking,  that  he  had  not  the  honour  of  being  sufficiently  ac acquainted  quainted acquainted  with  him,  to  entitle  his  Lordship  to  take  so  great  a  This  drew  from  Lord  F.  a  sarcastic  reply,  accom accompanied  panied accompanied  by  sogne  threats;  on  which  Mr.  P.  rejoined,  that  had  that  in  his  hand  (meaning  his  stick)  which  would  defend  him  against  any  menace,  even  from  a  Lord  F.  on  the  instant  snatched  a  cane  fi.om  some  gentleman  in  the  room,  and,  as  it  is  reported,  struck  Mr.  P.  many  severe  blows  with  it.  The  consequence  was  a  challenge  from  the  latter,  which  produced  the  melancholy  catastrophe  above  stated.  After  the  duel,  Lorl  Falkland  was  conveyed  to  the  house  of  Mr.  Powell,  in  Devon Devonsaire-place,  saire-place, Devonsaire-place,  in  the  latter  gentleman's  carriage.  Lord  Fa'kland  died  at  two  o'clock  on  Wednesday  morning.  An  Inquisition  was  takea  yesterday  before  G.  llCyclgson,  Esq.  Coroner,  at  the  hna•e  of  Arthur  Anuesley  Powell,  Lsq.  Devon Devonsnire  snire Devonsnire  Place,  on  the  bady  of  Lord  Viscount  Carey  Falkland,  who  met  his  death  in  a  duel  on  Tuesday.  The  Jury  viewed  the  body  in  a  coffin,  which  was  rather  in  a  putrid  !  , STYLE=superscript  tats  ;  after  which  Surgeon  Heaviside  deposed,  that  he  had  known  the  deceased  two  years,  and  he  was  about  forty  years  of  a;;e.  He  was  called  to  give  his  attendance  at  Mr.  I'owell's  house,  soon  after  one  o'clock  on  Tiaesday  last,  and  he  found  Lord  Falkland  sitting  in  a  chair,  but  by  the  surgeons  advice  he  was  put  to  bed.  On  examining  the  body,  witness  discovered  that  a  ball  had  entered  the  lower  part  of  the  abdomen,  on  ::  , STYLE=superscript  e  Het  side,  and  the  symptoms  were  very  alarming,  as  the  ball  could  not  be  found.  'W  fitness  attended  his  Lordship  until  he  expired,  at  two  o'clock  on  Wednesday  morning.  Ills  body  was  opened  on  Thursday,  when  it  appeared  that  the  ball  had  passed  directly  across  the  cavity  of  the  belly,  and  lodged  in  the  back  hone.  In  its  ”assage  it  had  wouvaled  several  vessels,  the  blood  from  which.  ietjselled  in  the  cavity,  and  vas  in  a  putrid  state,and  one  of  the  largest  intestines  had  also  been  wounded.  Mr.  Heaviside  knew  nothing  of  the  affair  of  the  duel,  but  the  wound  had  been  the  cause  of  his  death.  Mrs.  hiog,  a  nurse,  who  attended  Lord  Falkland,  was  called  in.  She  hal  never  heard  the  deceased  say  any  thing  respecting  how  he  became  wounded.  His  Lady  had  asked  him  some  1 STYLE=superscript  questions,  but  he  evaded  them,  and  expressed  a  wish  to  sleep.  There  was  no  evidence  'A  hatever  to  speak  to  this  duel,  or  what  1  the  dispute  was  which  led  to  the  cause  0:  it.  Verdict—wiyist  mimer  against  some  person  or  persons  unknown.  Lady  Falkland  is  left  with  three  female  children,  and  a  boy  ou  whom  the  title  de.;olves.  FIRE  AT  KENSINnTON  PALACF..—A  few  evenings  since,  Kensington  Palace,  %vas  disco‘ored  to  be  on  fire,  which  was  occasioned  by  the  due,  proceeding  from  a  copper  fire,  which  communicated  to  some  timber,  that  led  to  the  Princess  of  Wales's  apartments;  but  it  being  tint.-Iv  discervercd,  it  was  soon  put  out.  P16_TB00012 siending  his  cream  as  au  uu...u..  ...,....  ......,  •as  eventually  to  he  expected  the  real  Life  of  Burke.  lie  has  B  1  1r1;  11S.  uideuly  descended  to  that•grave  where  there  is  no  more  either  On  the  10th  Feb.  a  cottagers  wife,  in  the  parish  of  Farnwell,  f  work  or  devise!  county  of  Forfar,  of  three  children,  two  boys  and  a  girl,  who  Dead,  however,  he  still  lives.  His  memory  will  long  survive  with  the  mother  are  all  well  and  thriving.  is  burial.  Endeared  to  his  friends  by  his  virtues,  valitel  by  DIED.  t  ie  public  for  his  writings,  and  respected  by  iris  compattiots  fur  On  Saturday  last,  at  Twickenham,  Mr.  Perrott,  Master  of  an  is  senazorial  character,  he  is  exempted  from  the  com:non  lot  of  Academy  at  that  plaim.  He  was  in  perfect  health,  aunt.  about  to  blivion  ;  and  the  recollection  of  his  conduct  and  talents  vt  :all  _take  bold  of  a  cane  to  correct  one  of  his  scholars,  when  he  ra-  nger  some  time  loni  ;  er  among  mankind.--  eitied  on  his  desk  breathless.  -  ..5.........  -  .  .  'riuted  and  Published  by  :Lnd  for  J.  B.  BELL  and  J.  1)E  CAMP,  at  the  °nice  of  Le  Beau  Monde;  or,  Literary  and  Toshio!  , STYLE=superscript  i  . STYLE=superscript  able  Xagasine,  No  11.  Catherine-street,  Strand;  and  may  be  had  of  all  the  Newsmen  in  the  'hilted  Kingdom."
