text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  JAN.  t  2•  Trip  foilowing  correspondence  reached  us  yesterday  af afternoon  ternoon afternoon  t—,  CoRVNN  A,  JAN,  6..—The  retreat  of  the  English  army  is  con confirmed.  firmed. confirmed.  At  le•nictnek  yesterday,  the  army  had  assembled  Lugo,  with  the  exception  of  General  Frazer's  division,  which  had  made  a  considerable  advance  towards  Vigo,  but  was  ordered  to  fall  back  to  the  assistance  of  the  main  body,  a  battle  being  hourly  expected.  Benevente  has•  been  burnt,  and  the  French  threaten  Astorga  with  the  same  fate.  At  both  these  places  th'  F.aglish  prisoners  have  been  murdered  by  Buonaparte.—  Previous  to  the  assetullly  of  the  English  at  Lugo  the  ca cavalry  valry cavalry  which  covered  the  retreat,  assisted  by  the  flying  ar artillery,  tillery, artillery,  had  thrice  repulsed  the  enemy,  consisting  of  •.1.000  cavalry,  and  rendered  it  completely  incompetent  to  act  again  by  itself.  co  au  N  NA,  JAN.  13.  The  wliple  of  the  English  Army  effected  a  retreat  to  this  place  and  its  vicinity,  on  thp  11th,  in  the  evening.  tieneral  Bere  , STYLE=superscript  ford,  however,  occopies  the  heights  near  Burgos,  with  a  corps  of  ahout  5000  men,  oho  are  pits  efilplq  3  pd  in  fortifying  that  position.  Whilst  at  Lugo,  Sir  J.  Moore  drew  up  his  army  in  order  of  battle,  invitiag  ttie  attack,  %villa)  was  'however  declined  by  him.  JAN.  1.  The  staff  equipage  of  the  English  arrived  here  on  the  7th,  but  the  head  quarters  of  that  army  are  still  at  Lugo.  On  the  aftentonn  of  the  tith,  the  enemy  made  a  paitial  'attack  no  tbe  English  position.  but  were  repuked  with  the  lOss  pfi  sooabout  men  ;  that  of  the  English  being  but.  trifing.  The  sea  batteries  here  have  been  dismantled,  iq  order  that  they  might  not  furnish  the  enemy  with  me  ins  cif  a  n  noyance.  The  enemy  have  two  columns  on  their  march  to  Portugal  :  one  for  Lisbon  by  Estramadura  and  Elvtts  the  other  had  reached  Zamora  on  the  15th,  on  its  way  to  Oporto.  The  Nonpariel  schooner  arrived  on  Wednesday  at  mouth  from  Cadiz,  from  whence  she  sailed  on  the  Sth  inst.  She  is  said  'to  have  brought  letters  containing  an  account  of  a  defeat  sustained  by  the  Spaniards  near  Barcelona.  Letters  from  Alicant  of  the  24th  December;  and  from  Tarragona  of  the  1911),  state  the  4atue  fagt.•  .  We  have  grounds,  how howpier,  pier, howpier,  for  disbelieving  the  authenticity  of  this  statement`  because  we  have  authority  for  stating  that  no  such  event  was  known  on  the  4th  inst.  at  Cadiz.  On  the  contrary,  the  opinion  was  prevalent  there  at  that  time,  that  Barcelona  was  on  the  point  .  of  surrendering  ;  and  that  the  enemy  were  not  in  competent  force  in  Catalonia  to  contend  with  -24..'&#34;Jhe  Patriots.  The  followint  letter  fr  o  m  C  a  diz,  d  a  ted  an.  4;  gives  some  satisfactory  information  relative  to  Spain  :  Bonaparte  left  Madrid  on  the22d  December,  with  19,000  pen,  in  two  divisions.  The  Marquis  de  la  Romana  had  dislodged  the  French  from  Palencia.  W  hen  the  laSt  actoutits  . STYLE=superscript  were  received  front  him,  his  head-quarters  were  at  Carrion  de  la's  C;indes  Wl'  army  amounted  to  32,000.  ,tf  The  Dt4lce  of  I  afantado's  army  consisted  of  31,000  infantry  and  3000  cavalry,  the  van  of  which  occupied  Terancon,  40  miles  from  Madrid.  It  amounts  to.  12,000  men,  and  had  been  recently  reinforced  by  4000  picked  .troops.  We  have  very  good  news  frolocatalonia.  Three  officers,  belonging  to  the  Duke  of  army.  have  been  shot,  for  uttering  ex  pressions  calculated  and  designed.  to  dishearten  the  soldiers.  This  ismie  of  the  perfidious  arti  fi  ce  which  the  French  employ  to  excite  insubordination,  and  to  avail  themselves  of  the  •confte4on  thus  iitroduced  among  the  troops.  This  was  actually  the  case  with  Castinos's  army,  and  was  the  sole  cause  of  itsdispersion.  One  of  the  Colonels  in  that  army  stated  in  a  letter,  written  immediately  after  the  etigake-  Ment,  that  it  was  defeated  entirely  in  consequence  of  the  causes  just  mentioned,  and  that  this  statement  was  confirmed  by  the  continued  arrival  of  many  of  the  officers  and  soldiers  at  Caro Carolina  lina Carolina  and  the  places  adjacent.  The  army  of  Somosierra  was  in  the  same  situation  ;  so  that  it  is'  to  disorder  and  insubordination  in.  the  ranks  of  their  opponents  that  the  French  are  indebted  for  the  progress  they  have  hitherto  made.  But  they  will  no  longer  have  the  henefit  of  such  .an  auxiliary,  as  a  system  of  rigorous  military  discipline  has  been  established,  and  •  all  those  Com Commanders,  manders, Commanders,  whose  principles  were  suspicious.  have  been  dismissed.  Among  Oelwis  Galluzu,  who  suffered  the  enemy,  to  the  tumlber  of  8000,  to  penetrate  by  the  bridges  of  A  szoisispo  and  . STYLE=superscript  Almaear,  though  the  latter  Was  fortified  w,ith,  tweive  24-pounders,  and  fitaciuuß  pieces  of  canner;  of  smaller  calibie,  -and.  warded  by  a  late  of  9000  men.  .  TM;  olScer  u  already  in  StvklAc  k  ni  are  ,  .  also  Cavallo',  and  his  Aides-de-Camp,  Armentero,  Montusa,  Pinillos,  itmtalde,  and  Aguirre.  They  are  all  of  them  at  the  C.)nvent  of  St.  ('eronimu,  to  which  ihey  were  escorted  by  the  any:o  Carnbinerrs,  :mother  13rigadier-General  has  also  ar-  •  rived  there,  who  was  sent  thither  in  custody  by  the  puke  of  LifautadO.  In  La  Mancha  the  French  rowing  parties  have  suffered  severely.  In  one  town  only,  200  cuirassiers  were  taken,  and  put  tq  latelligunee  from  Vieppa,  states,  that  a  new  Revolution  had  broke  out  in  the  Capital  of  the  Ottoman  Empire.  The  Janissaries  who  have  shewed  a  manifest  aversion  to  the  introduction  of  European  tactics,  and  who  eagerly  wished  to  recover  that  influence  they  lost  through  the  firmness  of  m  BAIRACT+R,  have  given  at  last  'vio 'violent  lent 'violent  proofs  of  their  steady  determination  to  resist  every  attempt  to  salutary  *reform,  and  excited  4  general.  revolt,  which  raged  from  the  lath  to  the  16th  November,  through  all  the  streets  'of  Constantinople.  They  made  a  violent  attack  on  the  starters,  occupied  by  •  the  troops,  organised  in  the  Epropean  m4nuer,  and  succeeded,  it  is  said,  in  cutting  them  all  to  pieces.  On  the  19th,  the  dead  body  of  an  unknown  Mussulman  of  rank  that  had  been  destroyed,  was  found  in  a  subterra subterranean  nean subterranean  vault  in  1.1  n:  Palace  of  Sultan  Mahomet.  It  was  shp shpposed  posed shpposed  to  be  that  of  Mustapha  Rairactar  t  who,  however,  as  IS  believed  by  well-informed  persons,  has  safely  effected  his  escape  to  Rudschuck,  The  Grand  Seignior  Mahomet  has  now  appointed  Mahn Mahnmet  met Mahnmet  Aga  provisional  Grand  Vizier.  The  exiled  Said  Aly  is  again  appointed  Captain  Paella,  and  °haled  Effendi  re remains  mains remains  as  Minister  for  Foreign  Aft  - STYLE=superscript  airs.  The  Reis  :Effendi,  and  lOaja  Bey,  also  retain  - STYLE=superscript  their  former  rank  .  It  appears  that  the  French  have  evacuated  Berlin  at'  lad.  Previous  to  that  event,  Davoust,  who  command's  thst  French  force  in  Ger.nany,  addressed  a  letter  to  St.  Hilaire  t;overnor  of  Berlin,  in  a  nauseous  strain  of  affected  mora'  lity,  in  which  this  fellow,  the  accomplice  in  the  murders'  rapine,  and  devastation,  ofhis  Corsican  master,  speaks  oy  Frei!  :1;  respect  for  the  property  and  independence  of  thf  cuutries  they  occupied  I  A  circumstance  which  accele-e  rated  the  departure  of  the  enemy  was  4  secret  association  organised  precisely  on  the  same  plan  as  that  during  the  disorders  in  Ireland.  We  hope  its  object  was  different  ;  and  that  the  yooths  of  Prussia  had  entered  into  these  s,,lern4  and  secret  engagements  for  the  purpose  of  exterminating  their  savage  oppressors.  A  packet,  the  Pownshtnd,  is  arrived  at  Falmouth  frem  the  Brazils  ?  after  au  uncommonly  quick  passage.  She  galled  from  Rio  ,Janeiro  on  the  2d  of  December.  The  commer commercial  cial commercial  intellig  ence  received  by  her  is  of  some  importance;  the  politica  ranch  .More  so.  It  is  said  that  the  markers  of  the  Brazils  have  been  almost  glutted  with  British  merchan merchandize,  dize, merchandize,  and  that  the  Goiernment  has  not  given  the  facilities  to  commerce  that  were  expected.  We  shall  not  on  the  authority  of  over-sanguine  and  disappointed  spectators,  presume.  to  arraign  the  policy  of  the  emigrant  Govern Government,  ment, Government,  which  we  are  persuaded  will  acquit  itself  of  the  debt  Of  obligation  that  is  due  to  England.  If  we  were  to  listen  to  the  clarnours'of  speculators,  we  should  never  know  year's  repose..  The  Morning  Star  of  Plymouth,  which  was  appointed  as  a  Cartel  to  carry  over  about  twenty  Franch  Gentlemen  and  Ladies  to  Morlaix.  On  Saturday  last  she  went  op  into  Mill  Bay  for  the  purpose  of  taking  them  on  board—a  cot  which  belonged  to  one  of  the  passengers  was  in  Mill  Prison,  and  was  to  be  taken  to  Sandy  Cove  beach,  to  be  taken  on  board.  A  potter  being  employed  on  the  occasion,  took  the  cot  with  its  contents  on  his  back,  and  had  not  pro proceeded  ceeded proceeded  far  before  he  felt-something  move  within  which  so  much  alarmed  him  that  he  itnmediately  threw  it  off  his  4  back  and  made  off.  Some  soldiers  beim'  , STYLE=superscript  witness  - STYLE=superscript  to  the  transaction,  and  seeing  the  porter  escape  with  so  much  agility.  proceeded  to  open  it,  and  it  proved  to  he  .a  French  prisoner  very  securely  sewed  up,  with  a  hole  made  for  him  to  breathe.  Ile.was  taken  from  the  cot,  and  guarded  to tohis  his tohis  former  habitation  in  Mill  Prison.  On  'tnesday  Bread  rose  One  Penny  in  the  Peck  Loaf.  P11_TB00008 Al STYLE=superscript  P11_TB00009 [Z  JAN.  22.  THE.  NATIONAL  REGISTER,  PRINCEKS  AMELIA.  A  black  velvet  petticoat,  with  a  drapery  across  of  gold  tissue.  ornamented  with  wreaths  of  gold  currant  leaves  in  stripe.  The  drapery  supported  by  gold  cord  and  tassel;  ground-work  sprigs  of  currant  leaves  in  matted  gold,  and  brilliant  gold  fringe  at  the  bottom.  Train  of  black  and  gold  tissue;  bead-dress  of  dia diamonds  monds diamonds  acid  feathers.  Tnit  WYCHE%  OF  YORK,  with  her  usual  taste  and  elegance,  displayed  a  mazarine  velvet  dress,  the  petticoat  of  which  was  covered  with  a  most  beautiful  real  gold  net,  richly  spangled  all  over,  ald  trimmed  with  costl  y  Maltese  fringe  ;  gold  corel  and  tassel  to  correspond:  A  head headdress  dress headdress  of  ostrich  feathers,  with  a  collection  of  precious  stones  ;  the  neck  adorned  by  a  collection  of  the  most  precious  stones  fever  seen  in  this  country,  and  set  in  a  most  curious  manner,  which  is  peculiar  to  the  great  taste  and  elegance  of  this  amiable  Princess.  PRINCESS  SOPHIA  OF  GLOUCESTER.  Blue  satin  petticoat,  superbly  embroidered  with  silver;  bine  and  silver  train,  elegantly  ornamented  with  silver;  head-dress  diamonds  and  feathers,  Princeis  CASTELCICA  LA.—A  dress  of  white  satin,  trimmed  With  beads;  full  turban  draperies  of  satin  and  crape  in  festoons,  with  ropes  of  beads,  and  tied  together  in  bunches  of  the  same,  handsome  bead  tassels,  &amp;c.  Robe,  green  velvet,  trimmed  with  point  lace.  •  The  Duchess-of  NORTIIOHBERLAND—A  white  satin  Petti Pettitont  tont Pettitont  with  draperies  of  purple  Anglo-Marino  cloth,  richly  em embroidered  broidered embroidered  with  lame  and  Chinese  tassels;  Spanish  Robe  °rim °rimwith  with °rimwith  gold;  bonnet  a  l'Espagnole,  with  diamonds.  The  L.toir  MAYORESii—Dress  of  white  crape,  with  a  rich  and  elegant  silver  oak  and  ivy  border;  a  brilliant  diamond  neck necklace,;  lace,; necklace,;  Maltese  Cross,  ear-rings  and  bracelets.  Her  Ladyships  head  dress  consisted  of  a.  superb  diamond  terra  feather  sur surmounted  mounted surmounted  by  a  beautiful  plume  of  lofty  white  ostrich  feathers.  This  was  altogether  one  of  the  most  splendid  dresses  exhibited  at  Court,  elegantly  neat,  and  excellently  set  oil  by  the  youthful  elegance  of  the  wearer.  POPULAR  PREACHERS.  No.  XXIV.  Thy  actions  to  tby  words  accord  ;  thy  words  To  thy  large  heart  give  utterance,  duet  thy  heart  Contains  of  good,  wise,  just,  the  perfect  shape.--MIL2ON.  RSV.  SAMUEL  CROWTHER,  M.A.  OF  ;  -  onuses  cmoacm,  NEWGJTE-ST  RBET.  ADVERSE  as  some  respectable  individuals  appear  to  be  to  what  is  now  called  Popular  Preaehing,,  my  sentiments,  forinerly  favourable  to  it,  become  daily  more  confismed  as  to  its  eli%ibility  and  importance.  Charm  he  ever  so  wisely,  since  human  nature  still  turns  her  deafened  car  to  the  voice  of  the  spiritual  charmer  ;  since,  though  he  speak  as  it  were  with  the  tongue  of  an  angel,  the  preacher  is  fre frequently  quently frequently  unhteded,—is  it  difficult  to  conjecture  the  injury  resulting  to  our  religion  from  the  incompetency  of  those  who  undertake  to  explain  and  enforce  its  most  holy  doc doctrines  trines doctrines  and  precepts  ?  Unfortunately,  indeed,  the  conse consequences  quences consequences  produced  by  the  inability  of  some  clerical  instruc instructors,  tors, instructors,  and  the,indifference  of  others,  are  no  longer  chime chimerical.  rical. chimerical.  Schism  has  every  where  erected  her  decoying  and  destructive  standard.  The  brazen  serpent  is  again  lifted  up,  without'  the  camp  ;.  not  to  heal,  but  to  afflict  the  peo people  ple people  I  behold  with  pain,  therefore;  a  disposition  to  resist  the  only  measures  likely  to  counteract  the  progressive  in influence  fluence influence  of  such  calamities.  Samson  has  disclosed  to  us  the  secret  of  his  strength  ;  and  let  it  not  be  proved  that,  from  any  feeling  of  false  dignity,  any  infatuated  notions  of  superiority,  we  disdain  to  profit  even  by  our  enemies.  and  outlive  exclaim  antagonists  of  the  national  church  t—Churchinen  t  if  they  conceive  rightly  of  it,  will  fully  avail  themselves  of  this  admonitory  motto  g  which,  by  the  way  , STYLE=superscript  savours  as  much  a-  the  pharisee  as  of  the.  evangelist.  Many,  very  many  .1  :  ti  belitste,  clergy:nem  --alrtiady  gamut  some  of  their  self-riOtteous  'Opponents;  -  kind  many,  very  many,-  them  likessites  .•  -  It  is  to  the  essential  biisir:_.ss  Of  out-prephinteilmea  lical  preachers,  however,  that  I  wish'partiendirly  to  direct  the  exertions  of  the  milif:w..rs  of  theestablidinient.  *els  it  is  where  they  a  re  s  till  mos  t  wanting.  Lvt  then  4  ea  t  4  endeavour  to  preach  back•  hito  rrreasiir-iikhor*  impracticable--those  - STYLE=superscript  who  •  have  been  preached  friten-Ikt  bosom  of  our  mother-church  !  The  disposition  tif:the  people'  is  turning  strongly  in  favour  of  this  ii•opo*AL,  and  the  circumstances  of  the  times  are  equally  aus auspicious.  picious. auspicious.  Evangelical  hearers  begin  decidedly  to  prefer  far  their  preachers,  if  •  possessed  of  talents,  those  who  have  been  trained  in  the  universities  of  their  country  ;  partly  supposing  them  more  respectable  characters  as  gentlemen,  and  partly  because  the  diffused  -  intelligence  of  the  age,  owing  to  the  liberalised  system  of  education  now  . STYLE=superscript  •predo •predominant,  minant, •predominant,  inspires  the  rising  generation  with  disgust  for  tha  ignorance  and  elfrordery  of  self-taught  religious  pastors.  Aware  of  this  commencing  revolution  in  the  minds  of  their  congregations,  the  evangelical  preachers  are  sedulonsly  adapting  themselves  to  the  new  situation  in  which  they  are  constrained  to  appear,  and  studying  the  character  it  will  be  necessary  for-  them  to  assume.  If  they  are  supinely  suf suffered  fered suffered  to  establish  themselves  in  intelligence,.  and  conciliate  the  confidence  of  their  new  order  of  hearers,  the  vratest  is  •,-'.  decided.  Some  sentences,  which  fell  from  the  Rev.  SAMUEL  CROWTHER,  last  Sunday  morning,  suggested  to  IPC  the  propriety,  if,  not  necessity,  of  again  adverting  to  the  question  of  popular  preaching,  as  it  respectively  -con -concerned  cerned -concerned  the  evangelicalians  and  the  establishment.  I  can cannot  not cannot  agree  in  thinking,  with  the  present  excellent  Preacher,.  that  the  thinness  of  the  congregations,  .attend .attending  ing .attending  our  national  churches  and  chapels  is  to  be  attributed  to  the  iedifference  of  the  people  towards  divine  worship,  Hoilesty  becomes  the  pulpit  on  all  occasions.  Let  us  ba balance  lance balance  the  ma!ter  candidly  ;  and,  since  we  must  try  it  in  the  balance  of  the  sanctuary,  while  we  are  loading  cue  ,cale  with  t!;e  inthlierence  of  hearers,  let  us  nut  omit  to  th,'ew  the  idahPilN  preaehers  into  its  opposite.  Mr.  Crow  thug's  experievec  contradicts  his  own  conclusion.  Re,  ‘t  no  is  aft  able  prea.7her,  always  preaches  to  attentive,  and  often  nu numerens,  merens, numerens,  hearers.  It  is  not  for  him  to  complain  either  of  vacated  pews  or  unattentive  hearers.  Mr.  Crowther.  accomplished  his  preparatory  studies  at  Winchester,  whence  he  was  sent,  on  the  Foundation  Pre Presentation  sentation Presentation  of  that  celebrated  seminary,  to  New  College,  Oxford.  After  being  tome  years  Curate  of  Barking  in  Essex,  he  was  induced  to  place  himself  in  nomination  for  the  church  in  which  he  now  principally  officiates.  Ho  found,  however,  a  competitor  for  the  vacant  pastorship,  iu  no  less  formidable  an  opponent,  whether  cwsideri.al  as  to  pretensions  Or  interest,  than  the  respectable  Mager  of  the  Eltie-coat-Sehool.  So  powerful,  nevertheless,  were  the  spontaneous  testimonials  pres  , STYLE=superscript  :!:ited  from  the  people  among  whom  be  had  till  then  ininistred,  and  so  decisive  was  the  evidence  of  his  public  ability,  that  Mr.  Crowther  was  im immediately  mediately immediately  chosen  to  be  the  new  Vicar  of  Christ's  Church.  He  is  .  also  ,Aitmtate  Afternoo:Aecturer  of  Bishopsgate.  He  has,  I  think,  printed  one  or  tw=o  single  Sermons  ;  hut,  as  I  never  met  with  them,  it  would  not  become  me  to  pretend  to  characterise  theni.  •  Some  admirers  of  extemporary  preaching  would  be  dis disposed  posed disposed  to  undervalue  the  exertions  of  Mr.  Crowther.  His  sermons  are  always  recomposed  ;  and,  he  reads  so  atten attentively,  tively, attentively,  as  not  sufficiently  to  look  at  his  auditors.  His  voice  wants  variety  ;  nor  car  he  be  jeAly  .represented  as  dis displaying  playing displaying  the  advantages  of  unembarrassed  action  in  tiie  pulpit.  While,  however,  such  are  the  deficiencies  observable  in  this  Preacher,  they  are  most  amply  counterbalanced  by  the  the  real  and  numerotm  excellencies  NI  hick  he  noirertnPy  •  uispys.  .  P13_TB00018 ,1'  P13_TB00019 I  P13_TB00020 1  P13_TB00021 I"
