text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  JAN.  29.  ence  ought  to  preside  ;  should  want  of  system  and  co-ope co-operation  ration co-operation  appear,  in  every  department  ;  should  the  services  of  the  army  and  navy  be  frustrated  by  the  abuses  and  delays  ofthe  Transport,  Victualling,  and  Ordnance  boards  ;  should  a  considerable  portion  of  these  diSorders  be  traced  to  the  in incapacity  capacity incapacity  of  a  single  individual,  to  the  .  fatal  protection  he  extends  to  a  set  of  greedy,  unprincipled  followers  ;  and  should  they  be  suffered  to  subsist  for  no  other  purpose,  than  that  of  gratifying  his  private  vices  and  inordinate  am ambition;  bition; ambition;  where  would  we  under  such  circumstances  find  words  to  execrate  the  Authors  of  our  distresses,  or  language  sufficiently  severe  to  reprove  our  own  indifference.  The  Expedition  to  Portugal,  the  march  from  Cortinna  to  Astorga,  the  fatal  retreat  from  Sahagnn,  and  all  the  pri privations  vations privations  and  misery  our  brave  soldiers  have  sustained,  prove  the  extent  of  the  evil,  as  well  as  the  imperious  necessity  of  removing  it.  The  hardships,  our  troops  have  been  wantonly  and  barbarously  exposed  to,  through  the  negli negligence  gence negligence  or  iticompetency  of  the  commissariate,  have  roused  the  indignation  as  well  as  sympathy  ofAe  public  and  measures  must  be  proposed  and  adopted  to  prevent  the  re recurrence  currence recurrence  of  so  trying  an  abuse.  Whilst  the  greatest  order  and  act  iVity  prevails  in  the  same  department  among  the  ene enemy  my enemy  and  their  armies  are  abundantly  supplied  with  every  re requisite,  quisite, requisite,  we  find  notwithstanding  the  vast  resources  of  the  country,  and  the  immence  sums  expended  for  the  purpose,  that  incessant  complaints  are  made  about  the  insuffici insufficiency  ency insufficiency  and  irregularity  of  the  supplies  for  our  men.  However,  it  the  late  distresses  of  our  army,  together  with  former  disasters,  impress  the  insufficiency  of  our  present  arrangements,  we  would  be  inclined  to  bless  the  hand  which  has  afflicted  us;  and  if  the  amendment  be  complete,  the  battle  of  Corunna  offers  us  the  certainty  of  stopping  BONAPARTk;  in  the  career  of  his  fortunes.  After  the  event  of  that  memorable  battle,  the  counterpart  of  the  days  of  CRESCY  and  AtuNcounT,  we  should  explode  pusillanimity  for  ever  from  our  councils.  Shame  on  tho  feelings  of  the  individual,  who  would  now  recommend  caution  in  our  fu future  ture future  operations,  or  advise  us  to  decline  the  contest  in  con consequence  sequence consequence  of  the  enemy's  superiority  of  numbers.  The  last  glorious  battle  has  proved  that.  the  old  popular  adege,  of  one  Englishman  beating  three  Frenchmen,  is  neither  ex:  travagant  nor  impracticable.  It  may  be  criminal  to  foster  the  vanity  of  a  people;  but  we  know  not  under  what  term  of  abhorrence  to  designate  the  wretch  who  labours  to  raise  the  character  and  resources  of  the  enemy  at  the  ex expence  pence expence  of  his  own  country.  Just  Heavens  !  what  an  au auspicious  spicious auspicious  opportunity  is  offered  us  now  of  gratifying  an  ho honest  nest honest  ambition  !  one  hundred  thousand  British  soldiers,  of  the  same  metal  as  those  that  fought  at  Corunna,  conducted  by  a  General,  like  the  hero  who  led  our  army  to  victory  on  that  occasion,  or  fighting  under  the  guidance  of  a  Wel Wellesley,  lesley, Wellesley,  are  capable  of  snatching  from  the  brows  of  the  French  the  trophies  they  have  so  insolently  worn,  'and  so  unjustly  acquired.  Our  young  officers  are  worthy  of  their  country,  and  her  former  military  reputation,  and  have  supported  the  privations  and  fatigues  of  the  late  harrassing  retreat,  with  a  'constancy  and  courage,  which  excited  even  the  admiration  of  the  enemy.  We  have  invariably  enter entertamed  tamed entertamed  this  opinion  of  the  moral  resources  of  our  country countrymen;  men; countrymen;  and  if  our  Government  is  capable  of  wielding  them  to  their  full  extent,  we  niay  reckon  on  an  era  of  fame  and  prosperity,  wicqualled  in  the  annals  of  any  mode  r  n  peopie.  P2_TB00009 1  4"
