text
"TIDE  NATO  Al,  III;rIfiTI  T#.  a  FREE  Yes  !  the  last  lien  for  Freedom  let  the  draw,  Witco  Tau  . STYLE=superscript  Tit  STANDS  G  ON  THE  INOC:11  OF  LAW;  AII4I  for  that  cause  which  made  your  fathers  shine,  rairby  the  votes  of  their  degenerate  line!  Port.  tsci  SAMUEL  WHITBREAD,  Egg.  M.  P.  Sin—One  who  knoWs  you  only  as  a  public  person,  but  whd  has  lately  watched,  with  sympathetic  solicitude,  your  conduct  in  the  senate  of  this  country,  now  presumes,  distanced  as  he  is  front  on  by  adventitious  circumstances,  to  claim,  for  some  few  moments,  3  our  most  serious  attention.  Our  common  country,  demands  our  common  cares.  Frnin  the  highest  to  the  lowest  order  of  sticiety,  rich  or  poor,  ennobled  or  ignobled,  every  man  among  us  feels  deeply  Interested  in  the  fate  at  hii  tlalive  land;  and  is  justified,  by  this  feeling,  as  well  as  by  the  eventful  scenes  of  which  we  are  all  witnesses,  in  stepping  forward  to  assist  tlfe  treat  work  of  national  patriotism.  Yes,  Sir,  these  are  times  in  which  the  humblest  individual  may,  if  possCssed  of  ability  and  integrity,  With  propriety  assume  his  public  character.  It  is  thus  that  1  take  the  liberty  , STYLE=superscript  of  addressing  to  you  some  cursory  r&amp;  marks  on  UK!  manner  in  Wlifeh  you  have  treated  certain  recent  encroadhibents  agaiiist  the  optration  of  what  is  called  a  Fn.  .  rs  Pit  uss.  Anxiously  looking  around  for  independent  senatorial  Characters  (according  to  the  legitimate  interpretation  of  the  wont  nide nidependence),  pendence), nidependence),  whom  can  1  more  profterly  select,  fur  the  purpo-e  of  communicatin  my  sentiments  respecting  a  Free  Pres:,  than  Whitbread  ?  You,  Sir,  have  already  endeavoured  to  all  ILL  the  attention  of  our  parliamentary  reisrescotatives  di:•  im important  portant important  considerations  inseparably  connected  with  the  Molly  of  openly  discussing  whatever  may  concern,  collectively  or  indi individually,  vidually, individually,  the  people  of  these  kingdom:.  Let  it  be  hoped,  hott  -  ever,  that  you  will  not  stop  here.  tour  countrymen  (those  of  them,  at  least,  who  mast  value  all  that  gives  value  to  °dr  country  !)  are  pleased  with  the  prospect  of  your  patriotism;  and  fondly  contemplate  it  as  the  promise  of  ultimate  security  to  their  al  waye  acknowledged,  but  too  often  assailed,  privilegeti  Glory  Pig  in  your  real  iiideghdence,  and  having  experienced  your  integrity,  they  look  up  to  your  exertions  with  uocomaion  emotion.  A  . STYLE=superscript  on,  Sir,  are  knows.  We  have  not  now  to  ascerta  in  to  what  party  YOU  belong;  who  have  stouts  aloof  amidst  the  official  struggles  of  all  our  petty  parties,  and  whose  hands  are  uncontaminated  with  the  proceeds  of  corruption.  Assuredly,  Sir,  you  are  endued  with  too  utpch  sagacity  of  in intellect,  tellect, intellect,  and  have  acquired  too  deep  an  insight  into  human  nature,  to  rest  contented  with  the  evasive  answers  by  which  your  in inquiries,  quiries, inquiries,  as  to  the  Liberty  of  our  Press,  are  attempted  to  he  silenced  ;  while  you  possess  too  much  representative  iserepidity,  1  am  persuaded,  to  &amp;Aime  the  difficulties  to  v%  hich  you  ina•  be  exposed  in  pursuing  your  patriotic  inquisition.  It  will  not  ap appease  pease appease  yon,  Sir,  that  the  existing  laws  are  found  adequae  to  the  of  modern  Can  it  escape  your  re reflection,  flection, reflection,  that  it  is  not  so  much  upon  the  laws  themselves,  fts  upon  the  interpreting  and  administerirk,,  ,, STYLE=superscript  of  them,  that  the  felicity  ut  misery  of  legalised  Society  depeeds?  Alas,  it  is  vain  for  Juries  •  .  7  to  try  thr,  fact  of  libel—if  Judges  arc  to  decide  in  :chat  Ethel  ought  to  consist!  Look,  Sir,  once  more,  to  the  conduct  of  our  courts  ;  review,  solemnly  review,  the  verdicts  given  into  them;  Knd  do  not  sulks  yourself  to  imagine,  for  one  saltier,  moment,  that  you  have  at  all  accomplished,  as  it  respe  c  ts  !  h  e  Doctrine  of  Libels,  the  noble  object  of  your  late  parliamentary  interference.  It  is  mortifyingtd  talk  of  a  Juty,  when  we  know  that  a  .letTeries  could  invalidate  the  puiest  coae  of  laws  in  the  wtirld  !  Do—if  nothing  mere  is  to  be  done—do,  Sir,  exert  yourself  on  behalf  of  tortured  Wheite  and  crtatibuted  intiodnee,  to  'ob,.  s"
