text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  222  Jso  trifling  a  douccur  ?  Alessrs.  Barber  and  Sons,  of  Cowper's  .Court,  in  Cornhilh  cleared  (poly  Ask  me  no  exclaim  the  children,  4- STYLE=superscript  and  tell  Sou  eo  Ito  can  blame  poor  Mr.  Devaynes,  as  one  of  the  East-India  Directors,•for  declining  to  give  in  any  written  account  of  his.  patronising  presentations  ?  It  is  the  boast  of  our  laws;  and  the  right  of  those  who  claim  them.  that  no  man  is  forced  to  criminate  hiinseif.  We  demand  no  j'ao-de  7  se  evidence.  Why  therefore  arr..ign  even  Sir  Frauds  Baring,  merely  because  be  did  not  like  the  test  of  calling  for  certain  Declarations  by  affidavit?  What  signifies  it  if,Mr.Jackson,  with  an  antiquated  -perverseness  of  mind,  exploded  integrity,  is  with  horror  t  the  nunal  depravity  exhibited  throughout  the  whole  the  Report  of  the  Select  Committee  !  Complain  he  may,  but  it  is  of  no  use,  if  the  majority  a  ho,  in  the  year  ISO°,  overruled,  not  by  the  fairest  the  propositions  then  submitted  for  the  suppression  of  0,  these  invincible  majorities!  Mr.  Baselei,  become  so  notorious  by  the  evidence  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  is  not,  it  should  seem,  tire  only  clerical  trafficker.  Here  is  no  less  than  the  Rev.  Thomas  Lloyd,  Chaplain  to  his  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  Clarence,  who  obtains  one  nomination  through  the  interest  of  his-  Royal  Highness,  and  another  from  Sir  Lionel  Dove!),  both  of.  which  he  contrives  to  sell.  Well  !  60  it  is,  as  the  poet  singeth,  that  When  natintisare  to  perish  in  their  sins,  'Tis  in  the  church  the  leprosy  begins.  Lloyd,  indeed,  entirely  transcends  Basely.  Basely  wanted  to  purchase  some  little  ecclesiastical  distinction  for  himself;  but  Lloyd  appears  as  vender  of  more•than  one  secular  promotion  to  others.  '  There  are  still  parts  of  this  Report  of  the  Select  Committee,  which  eminently  solicit  attention.  How  came  it,  Gentlemen,  as  the  Report  states  it  to  have  been,  and  as  Mr:  Randall  Jackson  now  deplores,  that,  in  June  1500,  an  Amendmeut  subversive  of  .all  inquiry  into  abuses,  and  especially  calculated  to  counteract  the  result  of  inquisitions  previously  instituted—how  came  it,  let  me  ask,  that  this  measure,  when  the  votes  were  equal  on  both  sides,  was,  nevertheless,  directly,  or  indirectly,  carried  by  bal ballot?  lot? ballot?  Is  it  from  this  memorable  transaction,  that  we  are  to  col collect  lect collect  our  opinion  of  'the  wonted  honour  and  consummate  integrity  of  the  Councils  of  Leaden  Hall  ?  Facts  are  stubborn  things;  and,  when  coupled  with  dates,  they  are  sometimes  irresistable.  After  the  abuses  which  this  Report  of  the  Select  Committee  discloses,  can  we  read  without  some  feeling  of  horror,  as  Mr.  Jackson  felt  on  hearing  it,  the  following  Form  of  Certificate  usually  signed  by  the  Nearest  of  ti  in  to  each  Cadet  Ido  further  declare  that  I  received  ae  said  appointment  for  my  son,  gratnitons4,  and  that  no  money  or  oater  valuable  consideration  has  been  or  is  to  be  paid,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  for  the  same  ;  and  that  .1  mil:  not  pay,  or  CaUNC  to  be  paid,  either  by  my myself,  self, myself,  by  my  son,  or  by  the  hands  of  any  other  person,  any  pecu pecuniary  niary pecuniary  or  valuable  consideration  whatsoever,  to  any  person  or  per persons  sons persons  who  have  interested  themselves  in  procuring  such  nomination  for  my  son  from  the  Director  I  f  it  be  only  from  compassion  to  their  present  private  convictions,  I  shall  lAN  bear  citing  the  names  of  those  respectable  individuals,  •`  good  who  seem  to  have  thought  nothing  of  falsifying  their  own  consciences,  by  dishonestly  signing  such  Certificates  to  the  East-  India  Company  !  Excellently  is  it  remarked,  by  the  Select  Committee,  that,  where  solemn  declarations  have  been  habi habitnally  tnally habitnally  disregarded,  little  reliance  can  .be  placed  upon  the  sanc sanction  tion sanction  of  any  other  species  of  asseveration.  they  add,  44 STYLE=superscript  occur,  but  too  frequently,  where  an  oath  comes  to  he  considered  merely  as  part  of  the  official  form  by  which  an  ap appointment  pointment appointment  is  conferred  ;  and  the  human  mind,  fertile  in  self-de self-deception,  ception, self-deception,  accomodate.;  itself  with  onderful  facility  to.overcoming  all  scruples,  or  app:ies  a  perverse  ingenuity  to  evading  restric restrictiow,  tiow, restrictiow,  which  stand  ill  the  way  of  present  Perhaps,  how  ever,  these  good  soul  . STYLE=superscript  ;  really  concluded  with  the  pious  liadibras,  that  Ile  Oita  Daposes  an  oath  makes  it  Not  he  that,  for  convenience,  tak  'Knowing  therefore  sotnething  of  fallible  hum;  much,  I  am  not,  Gentlemen,  , STYLE=superscript  disposed  to  be  unf  rious  as  to  the  particular  dilemma  to  which  , STYLE=superscript  eems  now  reduced.  Some  insight  into  =akin  purchased,  does  not,  let  me  proudly  say,  mutt  to  the  imperfections  of  my  fellow-creatures.  .  still  do  I  feel,  and  ever  do  I  hope  to  feel,  with  •  Tis  vain  to  seek  in  man  for  more  Om  I  an  yet  induced  to  hope,  Gentlemen,  from  you  to  severity  of  any  kind,  that  you  will  not  Ivti'  mendation,  though  made  •to  you  even  by  the  tending  to  deprive  those  of  your  servants  of  sue  purchased,  under  your  patronage  itself,  by  .the  tions.—Would  this  uwasare  he  really  fair  ?  if,  res•4lve  on  vacating  al!  purchased  appointment  take  care  that•  something  is  done  with  our  Lady  Leighs,  with  -a  IteV.  Mr,  Lloyd,  or  4orii  and  Sons,  or  our  first  Woodford,  or  a  Mr.  Palm  wr wrdin,  din, wrdin,  or  Mr.  Donovan,  or  a  Mr.  Garrat;  or  a  Mr.  Shoe,  with  their  (S.e.  &amp;c.  Justice,  though  blind,  dined  still  he  even evenhanded.  handed. evenhanded.  While  you,  Gentlemen,  are  throwing  patronage  into  one  of  her  scales,  do  Lot  forget  to  load  the  other  w  ith  corrup corruption,  tion, corruption,  There  seems  reason  to  suspect,  Gentlemen,  that  some  of  you  will  not  highly  approve  what  is  said.  by  the  Select  Committee,.  towards  the  close  of  their  Report,  about  its  not.bcing  unrea unreasonable  sonable unreasonable  to  curtail  the  patronage  of  those  rim  have  not  been  styli-,  ciently  watchful  in  the  disposal  of  What  say  you.,'{ientle you.,'{ientle.men,  .men, you.,'{ientle.men,  to  this  proposed  docking  of  patronage?  Oh  the  prancing prancinghorse  horse prancinghorse  patronage,  how  ditrPrent  will  be  his  air  when  they  shall  have  deprived  him  of  the  length  of  his  tail,  and  the  flow  iugncss  of  his  mane  !  April  Ist,  1809.  hove.  What  does  Mr.  Lowndes  mean,  when  he  talked  some something  thing something  about  what  he  calls  surplus  ;  and  this,  after  the  Directors  had  provided  for  their  own  Well  indeed,  if  such  be  the  fact,  might  Mr.  Lowndes  impute  the  late  corruptions  to  excess  and  repletion  of  the  article  How  just  is  also  the  recommendation  of  the  Select  'Committee,  severe  as  to  some  few  men  it  will  appear,  to  curtail  this  pa-  altogether!  What  true  claim  have  the  Directors  of  the  East-India  Company,  excepting  as  to  connection,  to  pro provide  vide provide  At  all  for  their  own  Ninnies,  if  such  practice  tends,  in  any  case  )  to  the  et:elusion  of  in9re  meritorious  applicants  ?  WESTMINSTER  MEETING.  At  12  o'clock  on  Wednesday  a  vast  concourse  began  to  assem-.  ble  in  Westminster  Hall,  in  consequence  of  the  notice  given  by  advertisement  for  the  inhabitant-householders  of  1S  estininsier  to  meet  to  consider  of  the  recent  investigation  into  the  conduct  of  the  late  Commander  in  Chief.  At  one  o'clock,  Arthur  Morris,  Esq.  the  High  Bailitf  of  Westminster,  took  the  Chair,  attended  by  Sir  Francis  Burdett,  Mr.  Whitbread,  and  a  numerous  loviv  of  Electors.  The  requisition  for  convening  the  Meeting  having  been  read  from  the  ('hair,  Mr.  Swell  said  it  was  impossible  for  the  inhabitants  of  West Westminster  minster Westminster  not  to  come  forward  on  such  an  occasion.  The  eves  of  the  whole  kingdom  were  upon  them.  Their  local  situation  gave  them  an  opportunity,  beyond  others,  of  knowing,  that  the  abuses  which  Mr.  Wardle  had  so  successfully  exposed  had  existed  for  a  series  of  years;  and  knowing  as  they  did  that  such  abuses  pre prevailed,  vailed, prevailed,  they  could  not  b  s  yt  feel  additional  gratitude  to  that  Gen Gentleman  tleman Gentleman  who  had  now  laid  them  open  to  the  indignation  of  the  vOmle  united  empire  —Owl  applause).  Ile  was  persuaded,  that  there  was  not  a  single  town  in  the  United  Kingdom  which  was  not  convinced  of  the  improper  conduct  of  the  late  c  oul  _  mander  in  Chief,  and  witich  would  not  adopt  the  'sentiments  with  which  he  was  conlident  that  Meeting  was  impressed.  if  Par Parliament  liament Parliament  had  not  expressed  what,  he  was  sure,  were  the  sruti sruti,  , sruti,  inents  of  the  people  at  large,  how  could  that  he  accouffied  for,  but  that  the  House  of  Cumulous  were  mot  the  actual  Itepte:eil-  P14_TB00009 t;  Yes  it  !  ••  nanity,  by  far  too  forgivingly  censo.  II  your  patronage  ud,  'pretty  ckarly  tier  me  inexorable  Lung  have  I  felt,  - STYLE=superscript  Dr..  Iroting,  that  an  man.  ur  kno%rn  aversion  ily  adopt  a  recom-  ielect  Committee,  eh  .  places  -us  e  re  it  friends  and  rela-  ,  nevertheless,  you  ti  under  you,  pray  Lady  Lumens,  and  ire  Messrs.  Barber  P14_TB00010 ......•••••••••••••1121"
