text
"LCLESIASTICkL  PROMOTIONS.  The  Earl  of  Cassillis  having  presented  the  Rev.  Wm.  Ferric  to  the  l'i•ofessorship  of  Civil  is  tory  in  the  Unite-1  College  of  St.  Andrew's,  he  wag  on  Friday  sennight  admitted  a  Member  or  that  University.  The  Alarquis  of  Titchtield  has  been  pleased  to  present  the  Revs  James  M•Kitilay,  of  the  second  charge,  to  be  Minister  of  the  first  charge  of  the  Collegiate  Church  of  Kilniaruock.  THE  THEATRE.  MISS  NORTON'S  SANE  SNORE.  AND  MRS.  BEAUMONT  ' STYLE=superscript  S  ALICTA.  It  is  generally  thought  that  to  divide  is  to  weaken  ;  and  from  this  opinion  a  custom  if  not  a  rule  of  the  drama  hos  spruug,  which  causes  the  exaltation  of  one  favourite  cha character,  racter, character,  and  the  depression  of  others.  For  should  the  at attention  tention attention  be  awakened  by  two  objects  at  once,  no  one  doubts  but  it  would  be  less  powerfully  called  into  action,  than  by  one  alone.  Yet  let  us  suppose  a  man  pursued  by  a  lion,  or  any  other  carnivorous  animal,  in  a  desert.  Whilsttryingte  escape,  he  reaches  a  precipice,  the  height  of  which  is  made  more  tremendous  by  the  racks  which  start  'from  its  sides,  and  the  torrent  that  thunders,  hid  beneath  its  foam,  at.  tho  bottom.  lie  bends,  half  suspeuded,  over  the  yawning  gull',  and  at  the  same  moment  hears  the  approachire  - STYLE=superscript  roar roartags  tags roartags  of  his  foe.  Is  not  his  imagination  equally  a  t  ipaited  by.  arch  of  the  threatening  dangers  to  which  he  is  exposed  ?  Here  arc  l  however,  two  objects,  and  yet  the  terror  whiell  they  excite,  is  heightened,  and  not  weakened  by  thuir  number  and  the  equalitiy  of  their  magnitude.  Such  were  the  thoughts  which,  perhaps,  socked  in  Ike  mind  of  Rowe,  whilst  forming  the  plan  of  .  his  Tragedy  of  Jane  Shore.  At  least  such  an  inference  may  be  drawn  from  the  disposition  of  his  characters  ;  two  of  which  14  has  raised  to  nearly  the  same  pre-eminence  over  the  rest,  thus  dividing  the  interest  betweeu  them.  Jane  `?ore  and  ;  Alicia  are  park  of  equal  importance,  and  equally  difficult  to  perform.  The  mild  repenlant  resignation  of  :he  former,  and  the  jealous  impetuosity  of  the  latter,  whilst  they  form  ,  a  striking  and  hie  - STYLE=superscript  lily  interesting  contrast,  both  requir4  ts  ..  r STYLE=superscript  first-rate  abilitities  in  the  performers  who  are  bold  enough  ito  assume  those  characters  ;  or  else  , STYLE=superscript  should  any  inferior  actress  fill  one  of  them,  the  Tragedy  would  appear  to  a  teuell  advantage,-  as  a  portrait,  uuc  side  of  which  nou4  bey"
