text
"TIIE  NATIONAL  REGIS'  IL  g.  .  .  From  this  view  of  the  present  state  of  the  Peninsula,  it  is  easy  to  anticipate  the  most  brilliant  result  to  the  expedition  which  is  preparing  to  sail  under  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley.  It  will  amount  iu  the  first  instance,  to  altout  30,Q00  men,  a  larg  e  force  of  cavalry  and  artillery  inclu includem.  dem. includem.  We  cannot  help  expressing,  on  this  occasion,  our  regret  at  not  seeing  the  name  of  the  gallant  Gen.  FERG  ti  SON,  among  the  general  officers  who  accoivany  Sir  4  It.  After  the  distinguished  services  which  that  young  and  meritorious  officer  rendered  at  the  battle  of  Vimiera,  we  trust  that  the  independence  anti  integrity  he  displayed,  during  the  late  investigation,  will  not  be  considered  by  his  Majesty's  Ministeri  as  a  'disqualification  to  future  pro promotion,  motion, promotion,  and  the  further  exercise  of  his  professional  talents.  Could  we  'maintain  so  despicable  an  opinion  of  their  principles  anti  understanding.,  we  would  consider  them  the  last.  Men  existing  fit  to  he  entructed  with  the  ad administration  ministration administration  of  the  country.  :This  sentiment,  we  trust,  is  asgefieral  as  just;  and  we  cannot  entertain  that  paltry  opinion  of  any  set  of  Ministers,  as  to  iniag,ine  that  indepen independence  dence independence  in  the  Senate  excludes  promotion  in  the  army.  We  will,  therefore,  .rather  suppose  that  it  is-the  reported  indis indisposition  position indisposition  of  'General  . STYLE=superscript  FinswsoN,  and  no  !mkt  intrigue,  which  deprives  the  country  at  present  of  the  benefit  of  his  talents.  _  _  _  It  has  not  transpired  as  vet,  whether  the  force  under  Sir  ARTHUR  NVE.IESLEY  is  to  remain  for  the  defence  of  Por Portugal  tugal Portugal  ;  or  to  Penetrate  immediately  into  GalHein,  in  order  to  co-operate  with  the  Asturians  and  Gallicians,  and  wrest  from  the  enemy  the  fleet  at  Ferrol.  We  have  reason,  how however,  ever, however,  to  think  that  so  enterprising  an  ollicer,with  the  powers  entrusted'  to  hiin,  will  seize,  with  avidity,  the  present  aus auspicious  picious auspicious  moment  to  act  on  the  offensive.  Caution  and  de delay  lay delay  frustrated'the  effects  of  the  last  co-operation.By  vigour  and  rapidity  we  may  now  retrieve  the  senseless  blunders  Which  were  corniiiitted  during  that  unfortunate  campaign  ;  and  recover  the  honour  of  the  British  arms.  Every  man  of  every  party  and  persuasion  must  take  an  animated  in interest  terest interest  in  the  object  of  this  Expedition.  If  successful,  whilst  it  raiser'  the  national  reputation,  and  offers  a  greater  chance  for  future  security,  it  avenges  a  ge generowi  nerowi generowi  rind  'an  outraged  nation,  it  drives  the  invaders  beyond  the  Pyrenees,  it  -re-estAlisheS  the  Spaniards  hi  the  possession  of  their'  independence,  and  gives  them  time  and  !means  to  prepare  against  future  danger.  These  are  motives  powerful  enough  to  'operate  on  minds  more  slug slugglish,  glish, slugglish,  and  on  hearts  more  contracted  than  the  British  Na Nation  tion Nation  were  ever  thought  tci  possess.  Formerly  an  act  of  6PPression  to  a  neighbouring'  people,  roused  every  indig indignant-feeling  nant-feeling indignant-feeling  - STYLE=superscript  in  the  breasts  of  Englishmen  ;  and  their  hand  and  their  purse  were.  willingly  offered  in  support  of  the  in injured  jured injured  party..  •  They  have  not  degenerated,  we  are  cer certain,.'  tain,.' certain,.'  froth  those  ennobling  principles;  and  the  ardent  in interest  terest interest  they  will  display  on  the  present  occasion,  will  convince  Europe,  that  the  preminent  trait,  in  our  character,  is  still  the•  same.—Sympathy  in  the  misfortunes  of  others.  an  'ardent  love  cif  freedom,  and  an  abhorrence  of  injtistice  occupation  of  'this  province,  in  a  military  point  of  view,  is  of  the  highest  importake;  and  if  the  Austrians  succeed  in  obtaining  yossession  of  lCuffstein  and  one  or  two  more  mountain  fortresses,  the  inhabitants  themselves.  who  are  the  first  sharp-shooters  in  the  world,  au4  bold  and  enterprising,  to  an  astonishing  degree,  frona  the  very  nature  of  their  occupation,  which  is  bunting.  wits  be  able  to  maintain  their  independence,  if  assist  only  by  a  small  auxiliary  force  of  Austrians,  against  any  number  the  eneniv  will  be  able  to  detach  against  them  foe  sonic  time.  Their  neighbourhood  to  Switzerlaud  is  an-  other  object  of  the  highest  consideration,  and  we  cau,  without  any  spirit  of  prophecy,  predict,  that  should  the  Tyrolese  rise,  as  we  expect,  in  favour  of  their  former  Severeizn,  the  spirit  of  to  Corsican  041)091  will  not  he  confined  to  their  mountains,  but  wilt  c  ornm!;  -  .  nicate  rapidly  to  Graubinden,  and  th  e  smaller  AiWnis,  cantons.  The  demonstrations  which  are  making,  on  !Roth  sides,  along  the  extensive  line  of  frontier,  from  Gallicia  eastward  to  the  mountains  of  the  Tyrol  to  the  south-west,  are  as  formidahle,  as,  the  atrocity  ofthe  aggression  is  iniquitous  and  unprovoked;  and  the  motives  to  resistance  imperiously  urgent,  Duripg  this  awful  interval,  the  mind  of  the  observer  is  impressed  with  inexpressible  sensations  ;—it  fluctuates  incessantly  betwee¢  the  strongest  fears  and  hopes,  without  indulging,  for  an  7  time,  in  either  unmixed.  Whilst  we  cannot  but  admire  the  determination  of  Austria,  and  are  happy  to  perceive  'that  her  measures  correspond  with  the  danger  that  menate  her;  whilst  we  take  the  liveliest,  the  most  personal  interest,  in  her  fate,  and  ofter  up  to  that  power,  who  holds  the  destinies  Of  nations  in  his  hand,  the  west  fervent  supplications  in  her  behalf-  T  our  anxiety  and  alarm  inci  case  Ri  proportion  as  the  decisive  moment  approaches.  'fills  uneasiness  must  not  be  explained  as  the  eftect  of  despondent  anticipation  of  misfortupes  likely  to  overwhelm  that  power  ;  it  pro,  ceeds,  from  a  consideration  oft  hose  that  May  ensue.  The-stake,  which  both  parties  are  going  to  play  f'or,  is  so  extremely  unequal,  that  this  very  circumstance  gives  a  more  sombrc  colonriog  to  our  feelings;--the  success,  or,  at  most,  the  life  of  a  solitary  ruffian  is  laid  against  the  repose,  independence,  and  morality  of  an  entire  generation  !  The  idea  immediately  substitutes  indig indignation  nation indignation  fqr  nneasiness  ;  and  we  take,  leaving  Our  own  national  interests  out  of  the  question,  an  animated,  a  par.;  tial  part  in  favour  of  Austria.  She  is  the  party  in injured  jured injured  ;  it  is  she  who  plays  at  such  unequal  oddsi—that  had  the  present  subject  cif  contention  been  related  to  us  as  event  which  had  taken  place  seine  thousand  years  ago,  every  generous,  every  humane  principle  in  our  nature  would  be  instantly  roused  by  the  recital.  But  when  the  occurrence  is  passing  before  our  own  ekes;  hen  it  corns  a  neighbouring  and  a  friendly  state  ;is  it  is  only  '  the  prelude  to  demonstrations  of  a  much  more  hostile  and  alarming  tendency  against  ourselves—we  then  feel  all  that  interest  or  sympathy,  in  their  warmest  eft'usions,  can  inspire.  The  fate  of  Austria  decides  that  of  Europe.  if  she  fall,  oppression,  with  the  rapidity  and  devastation  of  a  torrent,  which  in  its  alarming  progress  had  been  restrained  by  son  strong  and  high  mound,  it  at  last  swept  away,  will  level  th  6,  remaining  traces  of  independence.  In  less  than  a  year  after  . STYLE=superscript  that  event,  a  flat  of  the  tyrant,  after  having  torn  from  the.  Russians  all  the  acquisitions  they  have  made  since  the  time  of  PETER  Tar  GREAT,  will  pronounce  them  a  tartar  horde  too  rude,  too  savage,  to  rank  amoug  the  civilized  nation*  of  Europe.  Should  such  a  period  arrive;  should  vice  and  cowardice  occasion  so  monstroni  a  revolution,  every  evil  which  the  insolence  of  successful  villainy,  or  the  wildest  suspicion  of  - STYLE=superscript  gloomy  despotism,  can  inflict,  will  visit  largely  and  wantonly,  the  nations  of  the  earth.  These  arc  the  anticipations,  which  must  agitate  every  man,  as  often  .  as  he  reflects  on  the  . STYLE=superscript  :mpending  contest  be between  tween between  France  and  Austria.  •  The  preparations  made  by  the  latter  remove  every  doubt,  that  her  government  is  not  in-  . STYLE=superscript  sensible  to  the  accumulating  peril  of  her  situation.  Loud  and  frequent  apieals  arc  made  to  the  pat  rie  tisir  V  RIM  IN  dl  I  I="
