text
"SPA  IN.  M  DTI  ID,  APRIL  c  2.  GeneralSrnASTltNi  announces  front  Santa  Cruz  at  the  foot  of  the  Bierrt  Alitreria,  .under  date  of  the  ‘29th  of  March,  that  on  the  27th  lie  descried  the  Spanish  army  of  Andalusia,  to  which  *ere  joinrd  a.  vast  number  of  peasants,  stationed  in  order  of  battle  before  Ciudad  Real  ;  that  he  advanced  against  them,  routed  and  destroyed  them  without  any  resistance;  that  on  the  `2St  h  the  feeble  remains  of  that  army  wi-re  on  the  other  side  of  the  Sierra  Morena;  and  that  the  p:oiluce  of  this  affair  was  4030  prisoners  of  war,  7  stamlarits,  and  18  pieces  of  comma.  .Among  the  prisoners  of  war  are  197  Officers,  of  whom  4  are  Colonels,  and  . STYLE=superscript  7  Lientenant-Colenels.  A  great  number  of.the  enemy  were  slain.  More  than  3000  were  put  to  the  sword  by  the  .  cavalry.  We  have  lo=t  but  30  killed  and  60  wounded.  Colonel  GtitA  UD  of  the  12th  Regiment  of  Dragoons  was  severely  wounded  by  a  ball.  The  Colonel  of  Dutch  Hussars  was  also  woufulei,  Gen.  Sri;  ttiri  A  N  t  praises  exceedingly  thechielof  his  lota  EIGUILLE,  who,  theday  befork  the  battle,  crossed  the  Guadiana  in  company  with  general  alt  c,tt.tun,  -in  order  to  prevent  the  bridge  being  broken.  in  whiCh  he  succeeded,  General  Mt  maAtro,.  his  Offi Officers.  cers. Officers.  and  troops,  distinguished  theinselves.  '  following  day  the  fugitives  were  pursted  by  the  cavalry,  and  two  of  the  enemy's  Generals,  who  were  among  them  were  slain.  General  SERA:4m  N  n notite  otite notite  .490  at  •the  foot  of  the  Sierra  Morena,  and  found  himself  Ibl  .  l  aline  with  the  Duke  of  LLU  (VICTOR),  who  must  already  have  advanced  beyond  Merica.  At  the  same  moment  that  Genoral  SETIISTIANI  captured  Cindad  eat,  and  arrived  at  the  foot  of  the  Tierra  Moreca,  the  Duke  of  Lint.t.ti  so  won  the  battle  of  Merida.  The  troops  of  reserve  of  Seville,  Badajos,  - STYLE=superscript  and  were'  collected  together,  and  placed  in  order  of  baffle  by  Gen•:-.  ral  Ctir!r  t,  upoa  an  elevated  plain,  tiettt  ren  D  ouberiite  and  ;Medellin.  a+4  w  hich  was  covered  by  the  Guadiana.  This  army,  formed  in  thee  lines,  was  supported  by  batteries.  flo;  sf  on  TA  the  Duke  of  t  r.  t  t.O  Y  o  observed  this,  he  com commanded  manded commanded  the  cavalry  of  Clene,rals  t.t.e  and  LATOUR  MA  V VTIOU  TIOU VTIOU  RG  to  plate  theniselve's  in  an  oblique  line;  and  he  ordered  General  A  V  %I,  to  place  himself  wit  h  the  division  of  the  Princes  of  the2Clarederation  of  the  Rhine.  in  a  close  column,  between  C:e  above  +aril!  ioned  cavalry.  lie  orengthened  him  with  14  piN:es  of  artillery,  and  placed  the  iiivisions  Vitiate  and-Rutfin  in  t  rear.  The  Duke  of  %fIf,I.UNO  - STYLE=superscript  attacked  . STYLE=superscript  the  left  wing  of  the  ene  ray,  and  inmantly  tnrew  it  into  confusion.  The  centre  and.  right  winA.  were  also  routed.  Seven  thousand  Spaniards  remained  on  titi-  kid  of  battle  :  3000  were  made  prisoners  ;  the  remainder  were  dispersed.  Thirty  pieces  of-cannon  and  nine•colours  have  into  our  . STYLE=superscript  hands.  This  important  enza;einent  has  laid  open  Seville  to  us.  The  fugitive;,  arc  pitructi  a  ith  the  utiowit  activity.  On  the  29tit  of  ,filar  h,  the  adva!irea  guard  of  the  Doke  of  BELLUNO  a  l STYLE=superscript  Ved  On  riOt  side  of  and  it  hoped  to  u.;i!e  it  with  the  Doke  of  IiaLMATIAOIhO  )  it  is  thought,  e  :t'.4  . STYLE=superscript  eady  entcted"
