text
"TIM  NATIONAL  REGISTER-  criir  oleo  golog  forward.  Ile  says,  if  the  :yid  kat  ion  was  to  considered,  he  should  say  (that  is,  he  should  write  on  be  Then  if  further  curl:titles  were  to  he  male  upon  it,  he  should  probably  to  he  re-con 're-cons;:lorefl.'  And  that  in  cases  where  the  answer  was,  that  it  .tot  he  ac:..('e  , STYLE=superscript  l  to,  it  was  very  probably  meant  that  it  'alio  ,t,t  be  complied  with  !—This  may  be  understood  at  the  ,IC,rse  Gnarls,  I  a  ill  readily  admit,  but  that  any  other  person  can  svaleriatial  it,  1  must  most  decidedly  deny  !—Let  the  House  recollect  that  these  services  were  the  same  at  the  time  the  refusal  wa  , STYLE=superscript  ,  given,  as  they  were  when  they  were  favour 'favouralit'  considered.  It  appears  that  Colonel  Brooke  has  been  taalve  )  (  I  sla  to  the  army,  four  months  of  which  period  he  was  :s  Carnet  of  I  tat  •oons,  and  seven  year:  on  half-pay.  Colonel  C  r  ia  eon,  in  t.  first  instance,  gives  it  as  a  reason  for  the  ex excal  cal excal  e  being  gawped,  that  Col.  iirooke  was  so  long  on  linlf  pay;  and  was  request  is  complied  with  on  the  grounds  of  his  ser ser'  ' ser'  Is  it  nit  an  extraordinary  circumstauce  in  an  exchange  of  a‘•  :At  tiati  alone)  •  ;orlon  could  not  recollect  a  word  said  in  Co•••  iel  Broake's  favour!  1  would  ask,  what  it  was  which  cer,:•..a  -  a  good  cavalry  officer  ?  It  is  well  known  that  a  cav  .  er  inn-t  serve  some  years  before  he  can  be  a  rood  officer;  that  according  to  the  regulation  of  his  Royal  High7iess,  Torn  cu  does  him  the  highest  honour,  an  officer  must  serve  •  years  s..fore  he  call  he  a  field  officer;  and  the  reason  k,  that  no  •  man  slioultl  I-ase  that  rank  conferred  upon  him  until  he  is  per per(-Isiah  (-Isiah per(-Isiah  :led  to  fill  it.  But  it  is  rather  a  peculiar  cir circianstvice,  cianstvice, circianstvice,  that  this  officer,  who,  when  you  deduct  She  seven  years  on  half-pay,  had  only  served  five  years,  is  con considered  sidered considered  a  proper  man  to  put  at  tta  head  of  a  cavalry  regiment,  in  which  service  he  had  la  - STYLE=superscript  yen  but  four  months  !  Tha.,  case  certainly  militates  strongly  against  those  very  regu regutat  tat regutat  i  ous  made  by  his  Royal  Highness  himself.  The  next  case  I  come  to  is  that  of  Capt.  Mating.  It  may  be  in  the  recollection  of  the  'louse  the  way  thiscase  was  taken  up,  and  that  it  was  not  ma mana.asd  na.asd mana.asd  at  all  in  the  way  in  which  I  wished.  'While  this  gentleman  had  never  been  out  of  England;  and  I  with  to  bring  it  to  this  point,  whether  it  Is  not  highly  improper,  not  to  say  corrupt,  in  any  Commander  in  Chief,  to  put  men  who  had  never  been  out  of  England,  over  the  heads  of  officers  who  had  served  so  many  years  in  foreign  climates  ?  During  the  progress  of  this  case,  it  appeared  that  another  Capt.  Maling  was  employed  in  the  Com Comma!'  ma!' Comma!'  ler  in  Chief's  office,  who  Never  rendered  any  service,  nor  never  llad  joined  his  regiment;  that  Colonel  Gordon  had  recom recommended  mended recommended  him  to  the  Commander  in  Chief  to  he  put  upon  half  pay,  and  to  enjoy  the  rank  of  Captain.  Now,  if  it  Wag  extraordi extraordinary  nary extraordinary  that  Mr.  Mating,  who  bad  never  been  out  of  England,  should  be  put  over  those  who  had  seen  service;  it  was  almost  as  extraordinary  to  give  this  gentleman  half-pay,  who  had  never  joined  his  regiment;  and  if  I  am  not  very  wrong;  there  is  an  Act  of  Parliament,  that  an  officer  cannot  be  put  on  half-pay  sinl•-ss  he  has  joined  his  regiment  and  served.  I  think,  therefore,  that  a  necessary  inference  arises  here,  that  there'  has  been  very  great  abuse  of  this  power,  which,  in  my  mind,  ong,ht  not  to  be  entrusted  without  limit  to  any  Commander  in  Chief  whatever.  The  next  case  I  come  to  is  that  of  Col.  French's  Levy.  The  evidence  of  Captain  Huxley  Sandon,  of  Mr.  Dowler,  of  Mr.  Grant,  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  Miss  Taylor,  fully  corroborate  each  •  other  upon  that  case.  The  terms  of  this  levy  was  500  guineas  to  Mrs.  Clarke;  this  money  vs  as  paid  when  the  letter  of  service  - STYLE=superscript  was  granted.  Mr.  Corgi  acted  as  the  agent,  and  received  2001.  for  the  introduction.  Mr.  Howler's  evidence  corroborates  this,  and  states,  that  he  remonstrated  with  Mrs.  Clarke  upon  the  im impropriety  propriety impropriety  of  the  transaction.  Mr.  John  Grant,  agent  to  the  levy,  stated,  that  the  letter  of  service  was  obtained  through  the  influence  of  Mrs.  Miss  Taylor's  evidence  was  corrobo corroborative  rative corroborative  t,f  all  these  facts;  and  Birkett,  the  jeweller,  from  whom  the  service  of  plate  was  purchased,  further  proved  the  purchase  of  the  plate,  the  bills  drawn  on  His  Royal  Highness  by  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  these  being  paid  afterwards  by  drafts  of  His  Royal  flightless  upon  Coutts.  Upon  her  evidence,  Mrs.  Clarke  says,  that  Captain  Bandon  applied  to  her  fifty  times  about  the  levy  ;  that  she  was  teased  to  death  by  him,  and  that  she  gave  his  letters  to  his  Royal  Highness  ;  that  the  communications  upon  it  continued  Sy  17:01105  ;  that  the  parties  continued  from  titne  t.  time  to  send  her  rn:mey  ;  she  seems  as  much  aware  of  official  reaularity  as  Col.  Gordon  himself,  or  any  other  officer  in  the  Ci•annander  in  Chief's  oiiiee,  and  tells  bins  that  official  rei.,ularic  mita  be  attended  to,  that  he  should  receive  certain  papers  tlarouali  the  Office  in  the  usual  way.  In  another  letter  (No.  11),  she  tells  C'tpta  in  Salaam  that  she  itaa  commu communicated  nicated communicated  his  •praposal  Ole  Duke  of  lark  ;  dint  she  sec  him  at  V;sus  and  com,nunicate  further.  Now  this  surely  is  a  direct  communication  from  the  Duke  of  lurk  to  Captain  MA  RCH  12.  Sandon,  through  Mrs.  Clarke.  There  is  no  extension  of  ti.:e  letter  of  service  to  Germany,  and  yet  Colonel  French  takes  upon  himself  to  send  parties  to  Germany.  If  there  we.:e  no  offi official  cial official  documents  to  authorise  Col.  French  to  enlist  Germans,  the  inference  is,  that  it  was  done  upon  11Irs.  Clarke's  au authority  thority authority  alone.  I  shall  have  no  difficulty  in  proving  that  some  of  the'oflicers  of  Colonel  French's  did  go  to  Germany,  and  that  some  men  were  enlisted.  The  next  letter  I  allude  to  is  from  Mrs.  Clarke  to  Capt.  Sandon,  telling  him  the  Duke  was  very  angry  about  the  levy,  that  the  last  time  he  saw  him  he  promised  him  SOO  Germans,  and  he  had  not  raised  one,  &amp;c.  ithout  further  commentary,  I  OWE  this  is  sufficient  prOof  that  in  the  German  levy,  Capt.  Sandon  had  failed,  and  did  not  get  the  numbers  promised  to  Ills  Royal  llighness,  which  he  could  not  have  known  hut  through  Mrs.  Clarke.  In  addition  to  the  evidence  of  Dowler,  I  think  there  can  he  no  doubt  On  the  mind  of  any  one  that  Mrs.  Clarke  did  possess  influence  with  the  Catninander  in  Chief,  and  that  in  this  levy  she  used  it.  The  next  question  is,  whether  it  was  known  to  the  Corn:.  mander  in  Chief  that.  she  received  pecuniary  compensa compensation  tion compensation  ?  Mrs,  Clarke  says  she  did  communicate  this  circum circumstance  stance circumstance  to  His  Royal  Highness.  The  differs:it  sums  of  money  she  received  were  not  sent  at  any  particulaY  :ime,  bat  were  sent  at  any  time  and  in  any  place.  Noy  t.::e  expenditure  of  Glou Gloucester-place  cester-place Gloucester-place  and  Weybridge  cireied  on  w  ithout  His  Royal  Highness's  kno‘sie.d,  - STYLE=superscript  .;.5.—..:at  =  s%all  now  call  the  attention  at  the  House  to  ;he  evitie...  - STYLE=superscript  ,ee  (pt  . STYLE=superscript  Miss  Taylor.  She  was  present,  and  heard  r.  e:nversation  hetween  Ilia  Royal  Highness  and  Mrs.  Clar:tc,  Lo  j  ail  Highness  said  he  had  been  constantly  sritn  Creach's  levy.  How  does  h&lt;:  behave  to  you,  doi-Pt,;  not  very  well.'—Master  French  hod  better  mind  Ss  br  cut  him  up  and  his  trey  too  r  Airs.  (lac!:  •  qa:es  t:iat  sho  received  five  hun hundred  dred hundred  pounds  on  this  account,  w:.:ch  afterwards  went  in  part  payment  in  a  service  plate  :  is  corroborated  by  Dockw  ray  anti  others.  It  app  , STYLE=superscript  ..ars  Colonel  French's  letter  of  service  was  on  tne  Sth  A  p,ll  anal  „hat  the  plate  was  purchased  on  the  Sth-  Now  no  atftnipt  h..d  been  to  prove  that  at  that  time  Mrs.  Clarke  did  receive  any  sum  of  500/.  from  the  Duke  of  York;  and  it  is  certainly  clear  that  . STYLE=superscript  His  Royal  Highness  must  have  heea  aware  of  her  having  paid  the  5001.  to  Ilirkett  for  plate,  from  the  circumstance  of  his  giving  his  hills  for  thes  balance.—The  next  'point  arises  out  of  Official  '  Documents  relating  to  French's  levy.  By  his  letter  of  service  in  1501,  he  was  expected  to  raise  5000  men;  hut  to  discontinue  the  levy  if  4000  Were  not  raised  and  passed  in  nine  months.  In  seven  months  they  had  not  raised  beyond  two  hundred  men  ;  and  contrary  to  the  usual  practice,  and  in  violation  of  the  regulations,  indulgence  is  r,rauled,  and  the  bounty  incceased  from  fifteen  to  seventeen  gui guineas.  neas. guineas.  A  remonstrance  *was  sent  to  the  War  Office,  by  General  Taylor,  Inspector  of  Recruits  in  Ireland  ;  and  from  Lieut-Col.Ro Lieut-Col.Robinson;  binson; Lieut-Col.Robinson;  of  the  London  District,  after  making  several  direct  charges,  stated,  that  Colonel  reneh's  levy  was  without  a  man.  This  Report  is  sent  to  the  Commander  i  3  Chief's  Otliee,  but  in instead  stead instead  of  stopping  the  leVy,  nothing  but  Mrs.  Clarke's  influence  could  have  induced  his  Royal  Highness,  having  such  a  Report  laid  before  him,  to  continue  the  levy.  But  being  coovineed  of  the  truth  that  the  country  was  pay  ing  at  the  rate  of  'JO/.  per  man,  how  could  hiS  Royal  Highness,  with  this  long  detail  anti  positive  assertions  upon  the  suldect,.  have  let  this  system  go  on  in  direct  contradiction  of  the  letter  of  Service,  and  against  the  interests  of  the  country  ?  The  next  letter  upon  this  subject  hi  front  General  Whitelocke  to  Colonel  'Taylor,  submitting  the  propriety  of  discontinuing  the  levy,  and  calling  his  Royal  High Highness's  ness's Highness's  attention  to  it  ;  when  it  appeared,  that  out  of  4000  men,  only  219  men  had  been  raised  in  seven  months;  and  It  strikes  me,  that  unless  General  IS'  hitelneke  had  interfered,  'the  levy  would  never  have  been  stopped  at  all.  'Pants  was  a  s.  ry  mild  proceeding  of  his  Royal-  11  ighness  to  wards  this  man  w  ho  was  protected  . STYLE=superscript  by  his  'mistress!  And  is  there  a  Gentleman  who  hears  me  who  will  not  be  convinced,  that  if  he  had  not  this  extraordinary  prot•mtion  he  would,  not  have  so  long  dis disgraced  graced disgraced  tiw  service,  and  he  would  have  long  since  been  dis dismissed  missed dismissed  with  the  dis4raee  be  merited  ?.  From  the  evidence  en'  at  the  bar,  and  from  the  documents  upon  the  table,  it  appears  e%ident,  that  for  every  guinea  Mrs.  Clarke  received  the  people  paid  eighty  pounds!  The  best  case  is  that  of  Major  'font  u,  which  is  proved  by  Mr.  Donavan,  and  corroborated  by  Captain  Stnalon  and  others,  that  5001.  was  to  he  paid  in  the  first  instiotee  to  IV.rs.  Clarke,  and  that  Mr.  Donovan  was  to  receive  twenty-five  pounds  for  his  agency.—Mr.  Wardle.  Oen  ::rt-;tietl,  front  the  whole  of  the  proceeding,  in  this  case,  it  tas  evident  that,  notwithstanding  he  was  powerfully  recom recommended  mended recommended  by  two  mei  itorious  officers,  (A  orals  Burrard  and  Clime"
