text
"tift  kATIOIk7AL  REGISTER.  he  Would  not  have  suffered  that  communication  to  have  passed  over  without  animadversion.  .  .  .  ,  An  explanation  ensued  b  e  t  ween  Mr.  Whitbread  and  Mr.  Per Perievit  ievit Perievit  s  in  the  course  of  which  it  - STYLE=superscript  was  finally  Agreed,  owing  to  de de-1.  1. de-1.  Ys  in  pointing,  that  the  charg  es  against  the  Duke  of  York  ihould  not  be  tak  en  i  n  t  o  consideratiim  before  Wednesday  next.  plos  meta  of  all  her  resources,  to  fight  the  battle  as  a  substitute  for  Spain,  to  become  her  Champion,  and  not  her  Ally.  As  to  the  general  character  of  the  course  adopted  by  his  * STYLE=superscript  Majesty's  Ministers,  with  respect  to  assisting  Spain,  I  must  mo.  , STYLE=superscript  t  posi positively  tively positively  say,  that  /  conceived  it  to  have  been  dearly  pointed  out  by  all  the  public  feeling,  and,  as  far  as  it  could  be  expressed  and  collected,  by  all  the  public  opinion.  It  was  a  very  preva prevalent  lent prevalent  fallacy  to  judge  of  the  Spanish  people  upon  English  ideas  and  notions?  The  Spanish  people  wanted  no  political  -reforms,  and  it  certainly  did  not  become  the  English  to  impose  them,  The  English  were  not  conquerors.  The  main  question  with  his  Majesty's  Ministers  was,  was  there  any  grounds  for  believing  that  the  pe  o  ple  were  zealous  in  their  own  cause,  that  they  were  animated  azaiust  their  invaders  :  his  Majesty's  Ministers  made  these  inquiries,  and  they  had  reason  to  be  satisfied  with  the  re.  suit.  I  have  often  understood  it  as  one  of  the  favourite  maxims  of  Opposition,  that  a  country  united  in  itself  was  invincible,  and  that  nothing  could  resist  a  people  in  their  own  cause.  Sir,  the  Spaniards  Were  an  united  people.  I  cannot  consent  that  this  country  should  voluntary  take  so  low  a  rank  amongst  military  nation:,  as  to  tight  by  her  money  rather  than  by  her  arms—to  subsidize  a  nation  rather  than  become  its  ally.  shall  not  enter  into  a  further  detail,  as  I  conceive  I  have  suf.  ficiently  answered  all  the  Hon.  Gentleman's  arguments  on  the  point  of  delay.  If  the  delay  was  any  where,  it  was  in  the  Central  Junta.  The  English  soldiers  would  not  be  debarked  till  they  had  obtained  the  regular  permission  from  the  Central  Junta.  It  is,  indeed,  too  true,  and  a  most  melancholy  truth  it  is,  that  the  Spaniards  have  suffered  .the  greatest  misfortunes—that  her  armies  have  been  routed,  and  her  best  Generals  defeated  ;  but  I  cannot  persuade  myself  to  enter  into  too  free  a  criticism  as  to  the  cause  of  these  disasters.  If  he  really  thinks  that  the  British  arms  were  so  disgraced  in  Spain,  if  it  be  his  real  Opinion  that  the  disgrace  of  the  battle  of  Vimiera  can  never  be  wiped  away,  and  that  the  battle  of  Corunna  will  re remain  main remain  an  indelible  disgrace  on  the  recording  annals  of  the  court,  try,  if  such,  I  say,  Sir,  he  his  sentiments,  I  can  only  express  my  astonishment  at  his  way  of  thinking,  and  congratulate  mys..lf  that  I  so  widely  differ  from  him.  General  STEWAr.T  and  Mr.  Go  tr  tnrcast  opposed  the  Motion,  which  Was  supported  by  Lord  Milton.  Mr.  CANNING,  rose  amid  universal  cheerings,  and  in  a  most  ominous  speech  replied  to  the  statements  and  arguments  of  Mr.  Ponsonbv.  A  long  discussion  then  ensued,  in  which  Mr.  Windham,  Earl  Percy,  Mr.  Hutchinson,  and  Lord  Temple,  pressed  the  Inquiry,  Sir  Ponsonhy  having  replied  at  considerable  length,  the  House  divided,  —For  the  Motion  127—Against  it  20—Majority  93  Adjourned.  TO  OUR  SUBSCRIBERS  AND  THE  PUBLIC.  !OMAR  PREMIUM  Tbe  continuation  of  these  Clerical  Criticisms  will  be  imme,  diately  resumed.  Temporary  circumstances  alone  occasioned  their  sii  . STYLE=superscript  spenFiion  ;  and  on  Sunday  next  March  the  sth,  I  propose  myself  the  pleasure  of  attending  to  the  numerous  enquiries  of  those  who  seem  interested  in  my  opinions  on  subjects  connected  with  our  common  religion.  I  shall  also  have  some  acknowledge-  ments  to  make  to  my  correspondents.  February  25,  1809.  ONESIMVS.  We  have  been  induced  to  omit,  through  respect  to  the  public  feeling  our  Drdniatic  Strictures;  and  the  destruction  of  the  Theatre  will  excuse  our  not  adverting  to  the  merits  of  the  last  piece  that  was  represepted  there—T/  e  Circassian  Bride.  We  are  still  .  obliged  to  postpone  till  Sunday  next  our  obser.  vatlens  on  the  British  lostitittion.  A  Poitttiit  dF  THE  DUKE  OP  YORK,  .  .  Engraved  by  Scriven  from  .a  .masterly  Painting  by  Sir  Wil•I  Liam  Beecheit  1$  NOW  READY  FOR  DELIVERY  The  Charnettr  Of  His  Itoytil  Ili,ghness  i§  written  by  One One'  ' One'  simbs.  .  The  Port!.lit  Tay  .  bg  .  ,  y  .ilke  Iltircbase•  nt  of  itie:gAribNAL  ni:OSTEk  Otihis`criy  and  ro=filiirid*."
