text
"POLITICAL  DISQUISITION.  AUMBER  SIXTY-FIVE.  -64111%.  IiEFO  M:  eott`it  ptiot)  of  the  best  things  gives  rise  to  the  *oisteLL-lii7  It  is  a  lamentable  truth,  that  governments,  practically  the  best,  and  the  most  enlightened  in  principle,  have  gradually  de degenerated  generated degenerated  into  the  vilest  and  most  intolerable  despotism.  The  first  abuses  were,  in  appearance.  too  trifling,  and  their  'grada 'gradation  tion 'gradation  too  imperceptible,  to  excite  alarm  ;  but  they  operated  pro progressively,  gressively, progressively,  until  crirrnption  was  to  widely  disseminated,  that  re remedies  medies remedies  only  served  to  irritate  the  evil;  aild  reform  became  practicable.  Between  this  period  and  the  extinction  of  the  last  forms  of  freedom  . STYLE=superscript  ,  the  interval  was  filled  up  with  conspiracies,  proscriptions,  civil  %Sari,,  and  every  Crime  which  the  maddest  ambition,  fury,  general  licentiousness,  systematic  eon=  tempt  of  moral  obligations,  and  legal  i  mpttnity,  are  capable  of  per perpetrating.  petrating. perpetrating.  The  community  sank,  .at  last,  ex  hausted,and  mentally  depraved,  at  the  feet  of  the  worst  and  Must  ferbcious  of  Its  members.  Then  began  along  and  gloomy  night  of  human  mi miit,  it, miit,  ptivate  punishid  with  Such  sttidiout  cruelty;  that,  in  wading  through  that  abtiMinable  ,erind,  we  are  doubtful  which  to  execrate  most,--the  vile  herd  which  italifferently  w  itnessed,  or  the  want  who  perpetrated,  the  atrocity.  Such  is,  briefly  and  literally,  the  history  of  every  free  people  in  ancient,  and  of  some  in  modern,  times.  'What  an  instructive  and  'lvan!  example  to  nations  possessed  Of  liberal  institutions  !  But  to  this  country,  in  particular,  what  a  salutary  caution  does  it  fuhish  ;  which.,  from  the  very  form  of  its  governalent,  and  the  nature  of  its  pursuits;  is  itectiliarly  ex.  posed  to  the  danger  and  abuse*  we  have  described.  It  has  suf suffered  fered suffered  all  the  t:troes  and  horrors  attending  the  birth  of  freedom;  wit  was  a  long,  a  dreadful,  and  a  sanguinary  period.  Let  us  beware  the  convulsions  preceding  its  decease  !—The  charactei  and  spirit  of  the  age  fit  mankind  fur  the  perpetration  of  atroci atrocities,  ties, atrocities,  compared  to  which  the  former,  tremendous  as  they  were,  -would  be  insignificant  in  duration  and  Violence  !  These  produced  to  healthy  and  vigorous  (airing  ;  ►ehn,  at  he  grett  up,  made  more.  than  ample  amends  for  the  pangs  attending  the  delivery.  But  the  latter  would  leave  behind  a  fCitid  ctscuse,  Whose  efttu efttuvia  via efttuvia  Would  contaminate  the  air,  blast  every  generous  plant,  and  render  the  soil  capable  of  generating  only  rancid  weeds  and  monsters.  States,  like  men,  have  their  perlod  of  infancy,  youth,  man:-  hood,  and  define.  They  arc  mortal  like  them,  and  receive  at.  their  formation  seeds  of  disorder,  which  occasion  their  final  dis.  solution.  Some  hive,  likewise,  a  sounder  constitution  than  others  ;  and,  if  a  proper  regimen  and  suffici•'nt  exercise  he  eta  . STYLE=superscript  .  iiloyed,  may  enjoy  a  protracted  and  vigorous  existence.  None  are  immortal  ;  and,  however  agoniring  the  idea  is  to  the  mind  of  the  patriot,  his  country  too  must  suhinit  to  the  common  fate  of  sublunary  thinp,--extinction  1  To  her  sons,  if  they  are  high highminded,  minded, highminded,  this  presentiment  a  ill  rot  cause  much  despondency;  for  it  i=  in  their  powt.t.r  to  render  the  life  of  the  patent  long,  respecte;li  and  glorious.  Every  one.  who  has  studied  the  theory  of  our  constitution,  admires  its  excellercy  ;  hut  that  a  great  and  alarming  relaxation  h  visible  in  the  practical  application  of  it  4  ittincipka.  hs.4,  %%e  Ful.  LXI7II.  P1_TB00019 sery  and  degradation;  during  which  genins,  ntry  tue.  astd  loge  of  etiontey,  were  persecuted  and"
