text
"THE  NATIONAL  REc;IST  in  the  contest.  Just  Heavens  !  .Was  there  a  man  among  us,  intrusted  with  power  only  for  the  short  space  of  three  :fears,  who  had  talents  and  energy  to  wield  to  the  full  ex extent  tent extent  the  resources  of  the  country  !  The  moment  is  so  anspicious  for  an  enterprising  people,  if  we  neglect  it,  if  we  lose  it  through  the  impotence  of  a  few  public  cha char.rcters.—The  r.rcters.—The char.rcters.—The  idea  is  distracting.  It  was  generally  supposed  that  Madrid  had  surrendered  at  discretion.  There  was  a  capitulation  signed  by  MOHLA  and  two  others,  which  appeared  in  the  Madrid  Gazette  of  the  Ith  ult.  We  have  inserted  the  articles  of  this  Capitula Capitulation  tion Capitulation  ;  and  they  furnish  too  much  cause  to  suspect  Motu.%  and  his  associates  of  treachery.  How  afflicting  it  is  to  ac accuse  cuse accuse  a  General,  once  so  high  in  our  estimation  of  so  dis disgraceful  graceful disgraceful  a  crime.  He  enjoyed  the  same  esteem  among  his  countrymen  ;  and  his  decisive  conduct:  at  Cadiz  was  consi considered  dered considered  by  the  Supreme  Junta  as  a  sufficient  guarantee  or  his  future  loyalty.  Lnder  this  impression  they  entrusted  to  his  talents,  fidelity,  and  courage,  the  important  defense  of  the  capital.  We  feel  au  unusual  reluctance  to  accuse  a  Span Spannigh  nigh Spannigh  nobleman  of  treachery  ;  for  we  find  few  examples  in  their  history,  of  a  Spaniard  being  a  traitor  to  his  country.  This  capitulation  was  drawn  up  with  a  great  deal  of  art,  and  was  probably  dictated  by  'Boys  eAr,T  e  himself,  without  even  deigning  to  consult  the  Spanish  Generals.  He  acted  no  doubt  in  concert  with  them.  Every  article  is  calculated  to  flatter  the  prejudices,  and  appease  the  ani animosity  mosity animosity  of  the  inhabitants.  But  the  most  curious  circum circumstance  stance circumstance  is,  that  the  mune  of  his  brother  is  not  once  mentioned  in  the  whole  transaction  ;  nor  has  he  figured  as  yet  in  any  of  the  Bulletins  dated  from  Madrid.  For Formerly  merly Formerly  every  thing  was  done  in  the  name  of  King  JosEpu  ;  and  now  he  is  as.little  adverted  to  as  if  he  had  never  ex existed.  isted. existed.  The  small  star  is  quite  absorbed  in  the  bright  glare  of  the  Imperial  sun.  It  will  be  a  fortunate  circum circumstance  stance circumstance  for  JOSEPH,  if  he  recovers  the  throne  of  Naples;  for  NAPOLEON  seems  to  have  a  strong  desire  to  appropriate  to  his  own  use  the  throne  of  Spain.  A  RepoFt  was,prevalent  in  the  course  of  the  week  that  an  Engagement  had  taken  place  between  the  rear  of  the  British  army  and  the  advanced  guard  of  the  enemy.  Our  troops  are  said  to  have  been  completely  victorious.  In  the  last  dispatches  from  Sir  J.  MooaE,  we  have  remarked  no nothing  thing nothing  which  could  induce  us  to  believe  that  an  occurrence  of  that  kind  was  so  very  near  at  hand  ;  but  we  do  not  deny  the  possibility  of  it,  because  we  know  the  French  are  in  the  habit  of  transporting  a  body  of  infantry  behind  an  equal  number  of  horsemen.  However,  this  we  can  boldly  assert,  that  if  such  an  event  has  occurred,  and  there  has  been  anything  like  a  parity  of  numbers,  the  efforts  of  our  soldiers  have  been  equally  glorious  and  successful.  We  can  no  longer  be  accused  of  fostering  extravagant  prejudices,  by  antici anticicipating  cipating anticicipating  the  most  splendid  result  from  the  exertions  of  our  army;--the  late  official  account  from  Sir  JOHN  MoORE  justify  an  anticipation  of  every  thing  great  and  noble,  that  undaunted  bravery,  or  distinguished  discipline  are  ca capable  pable capable  of  performing.  What  rapturous  sensations  must  this  consciousness  of  the  superiority  of  our  troops  afford  every  individual,  who  is  interested  in  the  honour  and  prosperity  of  his  country.  Our  naval  pre-eminence  over  the  enemy,  the  vainest  and  most  arrogant  nation  existing,  did  not  dare  to  dispute;  and  the  superiority  of  our  land  forces  is  now  ually,.-coaspicuous.  We  have  fre4iiently  recommended  the  necessity  of  a  floating  army,  whose  operations  should  extend  frnin  the  Mediterranean  to  the  Channel.  It  appears  to  be  now  the  intention  of  government  to  resort  to  this  kind  of  warfare.  We  sincerely  exult  in  thisdetermination,  for  there  is  no  one  mode  of  annoyance  inure  calculated  to  distract  tbe  atten attention  tion attention  of  the  enemy.  Ile  is  assailable  on  every  side;  and  when  he  collects  a  sufficient  force  to  repel  ours,  we  ernly:rlz  again,  and  in  48  hours  a  lauding  is  made  200  miles  riii.ther  oil:  The  whole  regular  army  of  the  French  is  not  sufficient  to  protect  their  coasts,  as  long  as  we  are  masters  of  :he  Ocean;  and  it  would  be  necessary  to  draw  an  iron  barrier  of  awned  men  round  their  extended  shores,  to  prevent  our  landing.  As  this  of  warfare  is  now  in  contempla contemplation,  tion, contemplation,  it  is  of  the  hi,  - STYLE=superscript  :iest  importance  we  should  make  a  dilference  between  the  l'renl,h  and  the  nations  they  subju subjugated,  gated, subjugated,  and  to  subject  fo'iner  exclusively  to  its  pres pressure.  sure. pressure.  This  will  be  attended  with  several  advantages,  ex exclusive  clusive exclusive  of  the  justice  of  the  mea.:are.  The  enemy  in  ordf.r  to  protect  their  own  coasts,'  will  be  obliged  to  withdraw  rile  greater  part  of  their  troops  Italy  and  the  North  of  Germany  ;  and  a  chance  , STYLE=superscript  will  be  Las  given  to  the  natives  toassert  their  independence.  Th...  1  r  ill  be  obli  c  .,;eil  a  the.  same  time  to  call  out  on  permanent  duty  the  National  Guards,  who  together  with  the  regulars,  ordered  from  the  conquered  provinces,  will  occasion  a  vast  accumulation  of  expense  to  the  French  Government.  The  exct!ssive  duties  ofsuch  a  service,  the  contributions  raise  :1  on  the  towns  and  open  country,  the  losses  sustained  by  the  peasantry,  will  occasion  such  loud  discontent,  that  the  tyrant  will  be  forced  to  detach  a  part  of  the  farce  he  has  now  in  Spain  in  order  to  check  the  murmurs  of  the  French,  and  to  defend  their  Shores.  This  system  of  retaliation  should  be  immediately  carried  into  execution,  and  extend  from  Dunkirk  to  Nice;  and  no  further  either  to  the  North  or  South.  It  should  be  carried  on  with  extreme  vigour,  and  with  as  much  indifference  for  the  feelings  of  the  enemy,  as  they  have  uniformly  manifested  towards  others,.  They  should  be  taught,  by  experience,  to  feel  the  disasters  of  the  Spaniards;  and  after  having  sustained  as  a  conse consequence  quence consequence  of  legitimate  retaliation  a  part  of  the  calamities.  they  have  so  wantonly  brought  on  other  nations,  they  may  grow  more  averse,  for  the  future,  to  second  the  destruc destructive  tive destructive  projects  of  their  savage  chieftain.  Let  them  feel•  keenly  the  chastisement  ;  for  a  people  dead  to  all  moral  sense,  and  totally  callous  to  every  thing  that  does  not  affect  themselves  individually,  must  smart  severely  under  the  lash,  before  they  are  roused  from  their  torpid  in indifference.  difference. indifference.  According  to  the  latest  accounts  from  America,  the  Embargo  Act  not  only  continues  in  force,  but  there  is  every  probability  that  a  Non-Intercourse  Bill  will  be  passed  against  Great  Britain  and  France.  This  I:,st  mea measure,  sure, measure,  it  is  not  expected,  will  take  place  under  the  presi presidency  dency presidency  of  JEFFERSON  ;  but  as  soon  as  MA  DDESON  succeeds  him  in  office,  there  is  no  doubt  entertained  but  it  is  one  of  the  first  he  intends  proposing.  How  this  new  measure  of  rigour,  in  addition  to  the  grievances  of  the  Embargo,  will  please  the  Americans,  it  is  not  difficult  to  conjecture;  but  to  judge  from  the  private  and  public  communications  received  from  that  country,  we  are  strongly  inclined  to  believe  that  the  violence  of  the  Antifederalisis  is  preparing  some  dreadful  explosion  in  the  United  States.  •  A  dissolution  of  the  present  Union  is  more  than  probable,  should  the  .  .  1  CT:S)  P10_TB00011 I  P10_TB00012 ~  ~  4  P10_TB00013 W  P10_TB00014 If  P10_TB00015 •"
