text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  LAW  REPORTS.  COURT  OF  KING'S  BENCH,  WESTMINSTER,  FEB*  21.  •  (worms  v.  WI,  EATLE  V  I  ESQ.  This  was  an  action  of  assault  and  false  impritonment.  The  Plalntiff  is  a  tradesman  in  Westminster.  and  the  Defendant  a  CoVonel  in  the  Guards.  It  appeared  that  the  Miami  ff,  on  the  King's  Birth-day,  he  beluga  Constable,  serving  in  his  own  right,  was  stationed  in  one  of  the  avenues  lea  - STYLE=superscript  thug  to  the  Palace,  with  orders  to  permit  no  our  to  stand  in  that  passlge,  but  to  keep  the  crowd  moving.  it  so  happened  that  Col.  \V  heatley,  dressed  in  coloured  cloaths,  placed  himself  in  that  passage  with  two  Latlies,  and  the  Plaintiff  insisted  upon  his  moving  one  way  or  the  other.  The  Defendant  told  him,  that  he  was  Commanding  Officer  of  the  Guard,  ani  should  staad  there.  The  Plaintiff  would  not  believe  him,  as  he  was  not  dressed  in  uniform,  and  insisted  upon  his  moving;  upon  which  Col.  Wheatley  called  two  of  Isis  Grena Grenadiers,  diers, Grenadiers,  gave  the  Plaintiff  ip  charge,  and  he  was'  carried  a  pri prisoner  soner prisoner  to  the  Guard-room,  where  he  was  kept  two  hours.  It  was  for  this  assault  and  imprisonment  the  Plaintiff  now  brought  his  action,  and  justified  his  conduct  upon  the  orders  he  had  receiv received,  ed, received,  and  from  an  ignorance  of  the  Defendant's  character  and  sta station,  tion, station,  he  being  in  coloured  cloaths.  Lord  Ellenborough  thought  it  was  extremely  wronl  of  (  7 STYLE=superscript  01.  tV  heatlev  to  have  been  on  duty  in  •  coloured  cloaths  oti  such  a  day  as  that;  and  that  the  Plaintiff,  not  knowing  him  to  he  an  0111cer,.  did  right  in  desiring  him  to  move  from  the  avenue  in  which  he  was  standing.  The  assault  had  been  proved,  and  the  Jury  would  say  what  damages  the  Plaintiff'  was  entitled  to.  The  Jury  gave  a  verdict  for  the  Plaintiff',  with  M.  damages.  THE  KING  V.  BEAUMONT*  This  was  an  iaformation,  filed  ex  officio,  by  the  Attorney  General,  against  the  Defendant,  for  a  libel  in  a  Sunday  Paper,  printed  by  the  Defendant.  — STYLE=superscript  The  libel  was  a  le  t STYLE=superscript  te  r STYLE=superscript  addressed STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  his  Nlajeity,  under  the  signature  Tiberius  It  tontained  several  passages  of  animadversion  upon  the  conduct  Tsf  the  King,  and  many  of  the  Royal  Family.  It  charged  the  King  with  ruling  the  Country  through  the  means  of  a  secret  tahinet  or  Junto  of  persons  inch  pendently  of  the  public  :awe :aweliked  liked :aweliked  Ministers  and  the  Privy  Council  ;  from  a  secret  ,part  ,  ho  were  not  responsible  to  the  country  for  their  misconduct.  'This  was  to  effect  the  tendency  of  the  letter  •  The  puislication  bring  proved,  Mr.  Cliifard  addressed  the  Jury,  and  contended  for  the  De Defendant  fendant Defendant  that  in  other  times  in  •n  of  the  first  political  characters  has,  made  similar  charges,  both  in  their  speeches  and  writings  :  stud  he  ias:anced  in  particular,  the  great  Lord  Chatham,  Mr.  Burke,  Mr.  Beckford,  and  others  ;  amid  yet  it  was  not  there  held  constitutional  to  prosecute  those  persons  for  libels.  Tbe  Jury,  under  the  direction  of  his  Lordship  found  the  Defen Defendaut  daut Defendaut  Guilty.  FEB.  20.  cuEsTER.  CIRCUIT.  Robert  Dallas,  Esq.  and  Francis  Burton,  I:sq.  Montgomer%  shire—Thursday,  Nlareh  23,  at  Pool.  Dero)igh-hire--Iti'ednesday,  11:  arch  29,  at  Ituthin.  Flin:shire—Tuesday,  April  4,  at  Sold.  Cheshire—  Monday,  April  10,  at  the  Castle  of  Chester..  ACCIDENTS  AND  OFFENCES.  Early  on  Tuesday  morning,  the  body  of  a  new  born  infant  %as  found  in  the  garden  of  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury.  It  is  sup supposed  posed supposed  a  woman  had  delivered  herself  in  the  Bishop's-walk,  and  had  thrown  it  over  the  garden  wall.  The  body  of  a  very,  gtnteel  dressed  man  Was  picked  up  in  the  new  Paddington  Canal  WA  Tu  esday  last,  and  it  wa-  owned  on  the  following  day  by  the  brother  of  the  deceased,  whose  con  nections  were  traced  by  !tome  memorandums  found  in  a  pocket pocketbook.  book. pocketbook.  Mr.  A—r-1,  the  deceased,  was  a  Lieutenant  of  Infan Infantry,  try, Infantry,  on  leave  of  absence.  Whether  he  came  by  his  death  by  accident,  or  design,  cannot  he  ascertained.  There  were  no  marks  of  violence,  and  live  guineas  were  found  in  his  pocket.  On  the  10th  inst.  a  remarkable  instance  of  desperation  oc occurred  curred occurred  at  North  Shields.  Some  articles  which  had  been  stolen  from  a  wash-house  at  Tynemouth,  having  been  found  in  the  possession  of  a  woman  of  the  name  of  Murton,  who  for  many  rears  kept  a  school.  and  which  she  affirmed  were  purchased  From  one  of  those  women  who  are  in  the  habit  of  exchanging  clothes  ;  but  not  being  able  to  tell  the  name  or  residence  of  the  woman,  some  persons  upbraided  her  in  Cie  course  of  the  day  with  theft,  which  seemed  to  drive  her  almost  to  frenzy,  and  about  seven  o'clock  at  night,  she  embraced  two  of  her  children  several  times,  bade  them  farewell,  and  then,  with  her  infant  daughter  in  her  arms,  left  the  house.  Iler  husband  returniug  home  some  time  after,  found  a  letter  on  the  taYe,  in  which  his  wife  informed  him,  as  she  could  not  think  of  surviving  the  loss  of  character,  she  had  resolved  to  throw  herself  and  infant  into  the  river.  Instant  search  was  made,  but  her  body  was  not  dis discovered  covered discovered  till  Saturday  morning.  Coroner's  verdict-.--Lanarg.  The  body  of  the  child  is  not  Set  found.  A  circumstance  occurred  on  Saturday  se'nnight,  at  Elemire,  near  Masham,  iu  the  North  Riding  of  Yorkshire,  that  has  ob obtoined  toined obtoined  a  large  share  of  public'  attention  in  the  neighbourhood.  An  old  man  of  the  name  of  W.  Jest,  his  wife,  and  their  daugh daughter  ter daughter  and  son-in-law,  Jonathan  Graham,  resided  together  in  a  house  at  that  place.  On  Saturday  the  old  man  and  vvoman  were  left  together  in  the  house,•  the  son-in-law  having  left  them,  to  bring  home  his  wife,  who  had  been  on  a  visit  at  his  father's  some  days.  About  an  how  after  dark  the  old  woman  thought  she  saw  a  man  lurking  about  the  house,  and  her  husband  vent  out  to  reconnoitre.  Soon  after  lie  had  quitted  the  door  a  gun  was  discharged  at  him,  and  the  ball  passed  through  his  arm  and  lodged  in  his  body.  For  some  time  no  traces  of  the  murderous  olicuder  could  be  fonnd,but  suspicion  at  len7;th  fixing.  itself  upon  his  son-in-law,  Jonathan  Graham,  he  was  secured  and  taken  be before  fore before  Mr.  Clatter  the  Nlagislrate,  when  it  appearing  that  he  had  borrowed  a  gum  from  one  of  the  neighbours,  and  the  gun  having.  been  found  secreted  in  a  hedte,  he  was  committed  to  York  Castle  to  take  100  trial  for  the  offence.  The  poor  old  man  who  Iris  lately  become  posse  , STYLE=superscript  sed  of  some  property,  still  survives,  but  it  will  he  some  (la\  s  before  his  fate  can  he  pronounced  upon.  Yesterday  morning,  at  eight  o'clock,  John  Nichols.  for  forging  Bank  of  England  notes,  and  Sarah  Grimes,  alias  Bar Barrington,  rington, Barrington,  far  forging  a  seaman's  will  s  were  executed  in  the  Oki  Bailey."
