text
"CAPTURE  OP'  CAYLNNE.  •  Cayenne  has  surrendered  to  the  united  Briti.h  and  Portuguese  forces.  We  are  not  informed  of  the  previous  operations  against  it,  but  have  the  satisfaction  of  lay  ing  before  the  public  the  fol following  lowing following  CA  rittYLATION,  J'roposed  by  Victor  Hughes,  Officer  of  the  Legion  of  Honour,  Commissioner  of  his  Majesty  the  Emperor  and  King,  Com Commander  mander Commander  in  Chief  of  Cayenne  and  French  Guyana,  and  accepted  by  James  Lucas  Yen,  P,ost  Captain  in  his  Britannic  Majesty's  Service,  commanding  the  combined  Naval  English  and  Por Portuguese  tuguese Portuguese  Forces,  and  Manuel  Marques,  Knight  of  the  Military  Orders  of  St  i  lienois  d'Avie,  Lieutenant-Colonel  in  Chief,  and  Director  of  the  Corps  of  Artillery,  of  Fara,  commanding  the  advanced  Army  of  the  Portuguese.  Although  the  advanced  posts  have  been  carried,  and  that  the  Commissioner  of  the  Emperor  and  King  h  reduced  with  his  Garrison  to  the  town,  he  Owes  it  to  those  sentimenti  of  honour  'which  have  always  distinguished  him—to  the  valour  and  good  conduct  of  the  officers  and  soldiers  under  his  command—to  the  attachment  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  Colony  for  his  Mtgesty  the  Emperor  and  King—to  declare  publicly,  that  he  surrenders  less  to  the  force  than  to  the  destructive  system  of  liberating  all  the  slaves  who  should  join  the  enemy,  and  of  burning  all  the  planta  tions  and  posts  where  there  should  be  any  Vesistance.  •  The  Commissioner  of  the  Emperor  Commanding  in  Chief,  after  having  witnessed  the  burning  of  several  plantations,  particularly  his  own,  the  most  considerable  of  the  colony,  had  attributed  it  at  first  to  the  casualties  of  war,  and  the  disorganization  of  the  gangs,  and  the  liberation  of  the  slaves,  appeared  to  him  a  mo momentary  mentary momentary  measure  ;  but  being  assured  in  writing  that  the  English  and  Portuguese  Officers  acted  in  virtue  of  the  orders  of  his  Royal  Highness  the  Prince  Regent,  and  wishing  to  save  the  colony  from  total  destruction,  and  to  preserve  his  august  master's  sub subject-,  ject-, subject-,  who  had  given  hint  so  many  proofs  of  their  attachment  and  fidelity,  the  Commissioner  of  his  Imperial  and  Royal  Ma Majesty  jesty Majesty  surrenders  the  colony  to  the  forces  of  his  Royal  Highness  the  Prince  Regent  on  the  following  conditions:  [The  articles  which  follows  are  16  in  number.  It  is  stipulat stipulated  ed stipulated  that  the  garrison,  the  Civil  and  Military  Officers,  &amp;c.  shalt  be  sent  to  France,  and  they  agree  no•  to  serve  against  the  Prince  Regent,  or  his  Allies,  for  one  year.  ]  At  the  advanced  post  of  Bourde,  this  12th  of  Jan.  1802.  (Signed)  VICTOR  HUGHES,  .1  AYES  LUCAS  Yso,  MARVEL  MARQUES.  lINIPERTAL.  PARLIANIEN  HOUSE  OF  LORDS.  Alondall,  March  20.  The  Royul  Assent  was  given  by  Commission  to  the  following  tills—the  Mutiny,  Two  Sugar  'Trade  Regulation,  Annual  In Indemnity,  demnity, Indemnity,  and  Scotch  Child-murder  Burr.  Tuesday,  March  21.  No  business  of  importuitee.  I  P4_TB00013 P4_TB00014 Wednesday,  .)larch  2  .  resigned  his  post  of  Comtnanner  in  bole  ',  IL  ELM  11‘1  , STYLE=superscript  I  WS,••••  ••m  •  arded  in  their  respective  stages,  his  judgment,  why  the  House  of  Commons  should  not  come  to  a  Several  Bills  were  forw  and  their  Lotilships—Adjourned.  detertartatinn  :ui.some  parts  of  the  evidence  which  the  had  heard  at  their  bar,  and  on  which  they  had  not  yet  expressed  an  opinion.  lie  felt  as  forcibly  as  any  one  could  pos:ibly  do  Thursday,  March  23.  the  lo  , STYLE=superscript  s  sustained  by  the  country  in  the  resignation  of  the  The  Earl  of  Rossi.  v  N  p.resenled  a  - STYLE=superscript  Petition  from  the  Prison-  ilinstrinui  personage  wlio  had  lately  been  at  the  head  of  the  ers  iot.tined  for  debt  In  the  Four  Courts  !!I!tr  , STYLE=superscript  halsea  Prison,  army,  and  no  man  could  lament  more  sincer  el STYLE=superscript  y  than STYLE=superscript  he STYLE=superscript  did, STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  Dahill:,  which  was  ordered  to  lie  on  the  table.—Adjourued,  11  cause  which  led  to  A.  His  intention  was  formed  on  ma-  ."
