text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER'.  -  e.  Miquelets  hard  pressed  by  the  enemy  front  their  advanceil  po  s  ts,  was  induced  to  m-ke  a  sortie  from  the  Citadel  w  it  it  the  seamen'  and  marines,  and  the  ()dicers  commanding  them;  but  the  very  superior  force  of  the  enemy,  woo  endeav  mire,'  to  surround  us,  obliged  us  to  retire,  but  not  till  my  officers  and  men  had  di  , STYLE=superscript  :-  ,laved  a  spirit  and  courage  which  r  ave  me  the  most  lively  sata  , STYLE=superscript  faction.  lam  sorry  I  am  obliged  by  this  little  affair  to  send  sour  Lordship  a  return  of  wounded  men.  Late  on  the  evening  of  the  9th,  I  received  from  the  Governor  the  unpleasant  advice,  that  a  large  breach  was  mathe  in  the  rampart  of  the  Citadel,  by  a  part  of  the  bulwark  failine,  down,  sufficiently  capacious  to  ad admit  mit admit  twenty-five  men  abreast.  I  proffered  to  the  Governor  every  assistance  that  the  urgency  of  the  moment  required,  aad  directed  Capt.  Collins  immediately  to  weigh,  and  place  the  \leaser  as  neat  the  shoal  as  pos:lble,  to  flank  the  breach  in  the  event  or  an  attack.  I  sent  at  the  same  time  two  boats  to  enfilade  the  beach  wit  h  the  cannonades;  cartenately,  the  lateness  of  the  hour  precloded  the  •  enemy  gaining  information  of  the  event.  The  following  morning  I  sent  an  Officer  and  a  party  of  seamen  to  assist  in  repairing  the  breach,  directing  the  seamen  and  marines  in  the  Citadel  to  be  employed  on  the  same  service!.  By  every  exertion,  the  'sampan  was  placed  in  a  state  of  security  for  t  h STYLE=superscript  e  ni STYLE=superscript  g  ht, STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  defence  Of  which  was  entrusted  to  an  ()dicer  and  forty  seamen,  whom  I  sent  on  shore  for  that  purpose.  On  the  third  day  I  was  happy  to  see  .the  repair  completed,  and  the.work  ns  defensibte  .  as  it  was  pre previout  viout previout  to  the  disaster.  On  the  morning  of  the  15th  instant,  at'  eight  o'clock,  the  enemy  made  a  most  resolute  assault  on  the  Fort  Tr!nite  with  about  two  hundred  men,  anti  a  reserve  of  about  two  thousand  to  support  them.  The  enemy  were  bravely  repulsed  ;  but  in  a  moment  again  advanced  in  greater  force  ;  •  when  two  of  the  outer  gates  were  broken  open;  hut  by  a  mils(  galling  and  steady  fire  of  musketry  and  hand-greoadea  from  the  fort,  the  enemy  was  a  second  time  obliged  to  retire,  with  great  I  oss,leav oss,leaving  ing oss,leaving  their  leader,  a  Chief  of  Brigade,  and  many  others,  dead  under  its  walls,  and  the  second  in  command  carried  oft'  desperately  wounded.  Expecting  a  third  assault  would  be  made,  I  threw  iu  a  reinforcement  of  thirty  marines,  o  tit  a  Ca  'Will)  and  Subaltern,  by  means  of  a  rope-lad  d  er,  w  filch  was  effected  w  itbout-loss,  and  with  one  man  hnt  slightly  wounded,  daring  an  incessant  fire  of  musketry.-1  cannot  speak  in  terms  of  sufficient  praise  of  the  officers  and  men  in  theirglorious  defence  of  Fort  .Trinite,  on  which  occasion  five  marines  were  wounded,  and  one  Spaniard  ;  but  I  have  Ihe  satisfaction  to  inclose  to  .  vour  Lordship  a  letter  I  have  received  from  the  Spanish  Officer  commanding  its  garrison,  iv  Bich  does  him  great  honour.---1\  o  further  attempt  was  made  on  this  fort  till  the  '2oth  instant,  w  lieu  the  enemy  opened  a  battery  of  three  heavy  guns  from  a  height  commanding  it  ;  but  as  vet  has  made  no  impression  on  its  wall.  The  Lucifer  bomb  had  been  throwing  her  shells  the  t  o  preceding  (lays  to  prevent  the  enemy  making  a  lodgment  on  this  height  ;  but  was  compelled  to  retire  after  being  struck  three  times  by  the  battery.  During  the  pre previous  vious previous  night  the  eaemy  threw  up  an  extensive  entrenchment  three  hundred  yards  from  the  Citadel,  and  at  day-hre'zik  opened  a  fire  upon  the  ships  in  the  Itay  front  three  large  mortars,  which  obliged  us  to  retire  out  of  their  reach  :  the  bomb  vessel=,  from  having  a  longer  range  of  shells  than  the  enemy,  were  enabled  to  throw  them  with  effect.  Fort  Trinite,  from  its  insulated  situa situation  tion situation  and  strength,  1  am  of  opinion,  may  stand  a  long  siege.  Rut  l  ant  not  so  sanguine  N  I  .  ith  respect  to  the  Citadel,  whose  garrison  is  very  inadequate  to  its  defence,  and  having,  as  L  conceive,  a  vulnerable  point.  I  waited  on  the  Governor  on  Sunday  last,  to  take  my  leave,  when  he  inforated  me,  that  he  oats  in  expecta expectation  tion expectation  of  A  reinforcement  ;  hut  I  am  opprOwnAive  the  blockade  of  the  enemy  in  Barcelona  will  prove  an  obstacle  tobiffex  peewit  success.  I  beg  leave.  to  coitclude  this  dispatch  fO  your.  Lordship,  by  expressing  how  highly•satisficd  I  have  been  with  the  conduct  of  time  officers  and  company.  of  the  ship  I  have  the  tumour  to  command,  as  likewise  of  thoselif  the  Meteor  aud  Lucifer  bombs,  commanded  by  Captains  Collins  and  Hall,  whose  great  eaer eaerlions  lions eaerlions  during  the  ardeous  and  most  fatigu  in STYLE=superscript  g  - STYLE=superscript  service  they  have  itu ituperiouily  periouily ituperiouily  been  called  upon  to  perform,  reflects  the  greatest  credit  upon  him.  I  have,  Ike.  (Signed)  •  •  •  W2s  - STYLE=superscript  r.  Right  Hon.  Vice-Admiral  Lord  Collingwood,  &amp;e.-15zc..  List  of  men  belonging  to  his  Majesty's  ship  the  Excellent,  who  we're  wounded  in  actibn  with  the'  enemy  between  the  Sth  and  16th  day  of  November,  1808,  in  Itosas  Bay.  Rob.  Palmer,  John  Sands,  and  F.  D.  Coke,  seamen,  dangerously;  Jas.  Lambe,  and  Deli&amp;  Nosh  ia,  mariners,  badly;  .1,  cal,  sea  man,  slightly  . STYLE=superscript  ;  - STYLE=superscript  J.  Brown,  Serjeant  of  Marines,  slightly  ;  •  Ed.  Magennis,  seaman;  Jas.  Roberts  and  P.  Hyson,  marines;  Jas.  Martin,  seaman,  slightly  ;  J.  Burrows,  ditto,  badly  :  J.  Smith  and  J  Brady,  marines,  dangerously  ;  Wm.  Wilson.  U  gl"
