text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER,  Co  w).Eit,  APRIL  D.  tends  to  restrict  the  unstudied  ebullitions  of  the  heart,  when  aspiring,  either  in  praise  or  prayer,  imploration  or  thanks thanksgiving,  giving, thanksgiving,  to  the  Divine  Author  of  all  its  mercies,  and  the  rock  of  its  refuge!  He  who  alone  can  hear  the  soul's  re returning  turning returning  who  is  not  only  the  giver  of  all  good  things  but  the  author  of  all  good  thoughts,  will  doubtless  prefer,  imperfectly  as  it  may  he  offered,  the  natural  expression  of  our  wants  and  our  thanks,  of  our  dependence  or  our  grati gratitude.  tude. gratitude.  If,  indeed,  we  are  to  4 STYLE=superscript  4  pray  without  and  there  are  few  pious  persons  who  do  not  so  pray,  mentally  rather  than  verbally,  it  is  impossible  for  any  spiritual  for formulary  mulary formulary  to  direct,  at  all  times,  the  exercise  of  our  internal  devotion,  We  have  an  explicit  .caution,  from  the  highest  source,  on  this  IV  hen  ye  said  Jesus  Christ,  use  not  vain  repetitions,  as  the  heathens  do  ;  for  they  think  that  they  shall  be  heard  for  their  much  speaking.  lie  not  ye,  therefore,  like  unto  them  :  fur  your  father  44 STYLE=superscript  knoweth  what  things  ye  have  need  of,  before  ye  Properly  to  investigate  the  nature  of  Public  Prayer,  or  congregational  intercession,  would  far  exceed  the  limits  to  which  the  present  papers  are  necessarily  restricted.  Thereasons  assigned  for  praying  by  printed  prayers  are  much  the  same  as  those  which  sometimes  defend  the  preaching  of  written  sermons,  Propriety,  perhaps  even  expediency,  suggests  the  necessity  of  especially  attending  to  the  decency  of  Divine  Service  in  the  former  particular.  If,  during  the  time  we  arc  in  the  temple  of  religion,  the  46 STYLE=superscript  heart  is  not  to  be  hasty  to  utter  any  much  less  are  we  to  be  4  4 STYLE=superscript  rash  with  the  mouth  feeling,  as  we  do,  that  it  is  seldom  possible  fur  us  to  pray  as  we  ought.  Va Various  rious Various  churches,  have,  therefore,  since  the  extended  propa propagation  gation propagation  of  Christianity  took  place,  ordained  the  use  of  na national  tional national  rituals;  a  practice  to  which,  under  the  divine  fa favour,  vour, favour,  the  Church  of  England  owes  her  stability.  It  was  thistraining  up  the  children  in  the  way  in  which  they  should  walk,  that  formed  the  secret  of  the  greatness  of  their  fa fathers,  thers, fathers,  It  is  to  the  neglect  of  such  training,  politically  no  less  than  piously,  that  our  present  evils,  together  with  our  prospective  calamities,  will  he  found  imputable.  Notwithstanding  my  leaning  towards  national  rituals,  and  (with  certain  exceptions  yet  to  be  pointed  out)  my  special  value  for  the  Book  of  Common  Prayer  ap appointed  pointed appointed  to  be  used  among  us,  1  can  perceive  the  advan advantages  tages advantages  of  extemporary  praying,  as  practiced  by  aumerous  religious  societies  at  this  day.  If  every  gospel  minister  possessed  the  gift  of  prayer,  if  such  pious  prayer  were  the  combined  operation  of  soul  'and  mind,  of  judgment  as  weli  as  feelieg,  then  might  set  forms  of  no  longer  appear  necessary  or  eligible,  Much  is  it  to  be  apprehended,  however,  that  such  *MI  not  be  soon  the.  case,  It  is  the  peculiar  province  of  extemporary  prayers  to  apply  to  im immediate  mediate immediate  events,  and  embrace  particular  persons  ;  but  it  is  the  benefit  of  printed  prayers,  on  the  other  hand;  that  they  extend  to  all  circunistaiices  of  time,  and  affect  all  condi conditions  tions conditions  of  men.  Still  it  is  on  the  ground  of  incapacity,  and  the  consequent  danger  of  impropriety  if  not  impiety,  that  set  Forms  of  Prayer  are  mostly  desirable.  He  who  takes  with  him  printed  prayers,  knows  what  he  is  to  pray  far;  while  those  who  go  to  hear  extemporary  prayers,  though  in  spirit  and  truth.  often  know  not  to  what  they  may  listen,  in  what  words  they  are  expected  to  join,  or  by  what  nonsense  their  ears  may  be  offended  and  their  minds  in insulted.  sulted. insulted.  Whether  by  head  or  by  rote,  there  will  he  found,  in  each  method  of  praying.  something  to  censure  as  well  al  to  commend,  Considering  fairly  the  advantages  and  dis disadvantages  advantages disadvantages  of  both  modes,  comprehensively  as  well  as  spe specifically,  cifically, specifically,  impartiality  must,  I  think,  incline  still  to  prefer  set  Forms  of  in  the  performance  of  public  wore  ship."
