text
"112  peciall  vas  the  scene  lies  in  Germany  and  not  in  England.  For  the  same  reason  s  why  Lindorf  s  uncle  should  have  changed  all  Ns  money  into  f  ofnetss  is  not  dear,  unless  be  wished  to  make  a  transfer  to  the  British  funds  s  as  although  many  guineas  ma  have  of  late  yeats  been  sent  to  Germany,  still  they  are  not  be become  come become  the  current  coin  of  the  land.  The  situations  and  incidents  are  entitled  to  greater  praise  than  the  dialogue,  which,  however,  is  free  from  ridiculous  puns,  and  not  devoid  of  elegance.  Liston,  Jones,  Fawcett,  Mun Mundell,  dell, Mundell,  and  Farley,  displayed  their  abilities  to  great  advantage  ;  and  Mrs.  Davenport  and  Miss  Norton  were  excellent  in  their  - STYLE=superscript  respective  parts.  This  nfterpiece  was  well  received  by  a  crowded  house,  and  bias  Once  continued  to  attract  the  loud  applause  of  overflowing  nainbert,  LAW  REPORTS.  COITRT  OF  K!NG'S  BENCH,  Fzs.  6.  TUE  KING  V.  ALEXANDER  DAVISON,  ESQ.  ?he  Defendant  appeared  in  Court  to  receive  his  sentence.  Mr.  Dallas  made  a  very  eloquent  and  able  address  to  the  hurt  in  mitigation  of  punishment.  The  ar.o  '  smenis  were  prigs-  Cipally  of  the  same  nature  with  those  which  were  urged  upon  the  trial  to  prove  his  innocence.  Ile  stated,  a.  eircumstalices  it  grt.at  extenuation,  and  to  spew  that  he  could  have  no  objee.  .o°'  gain  to  himself,  that  he  gave  up  many  profits  to  whica  he  wits  fairly  entitled.  'Nat  at  the  time  he  was  charging  cow  ni:-  sion  at  two  and  a  half  per  cent,  he  was  saving  to  Goveroiae  it  3°.  per  cent.  by  the  sutspl  y  of  articles  to  an  equal  or  great  •r  'amount  at  that  rate  below  the  actual  market  price.  That  he  -gave  up  his  half-pay,  of  6031.  per  annum,  when  he  was  ap  pointed  to  the  attire  in  the  Ordnance,  under  Lord  Moira,  a..d  performed  all  the  duties  of  it  upon  a  salary  which  eurreased  his  previous  emoluments  not  more  than  70'.  per  annum.  That  at  a  particular  igerind  of  danger  he  supplied  arms  to  the  country  at  .cost  price.  That  he  vibe('  and  clothed  a  Volunteer  Corps  at  his  own  ezprnce.  Mr.  Dallas,  frau!  various  sources,  est  ima.'ett  the  value  of  the  different  sums  he  had  saved  to  the  public,  aid  had  given  up  in  siglaries  and  profits,  a'  7,50.0  1 STYLE=superscript  .  In  the  conciu conciuelan  elan conciuelan  of  his  speech  he  hoped,  that  ail  the  circumstances  of  ti  z•  case  `would  induee  the  C  urt  to  mitigate  the  severity  of  his  punishment.  Mr.  DAviPlit  had  two  sons.  who  were  both  serving  /twig-  isautstry  with  aoltour  and  glory  ;  the  one  was  in  the  army,  the  other  its  tlve  navy.  The  good  conduct  of  the  defend defend-1101,  -1101, defend-1101,  through  the  greater  part  of  his  employment,  and  in  varions  situations,  he  trusted  would  further  atone  somewhat  for  his  offence,  and  operate  in  mitigation  tsf  punishment.  This  the  •41  .fenclant  might  at  least  be  permitted  to  hope  in  the  hour  of  his  a:I  versit  v.  The  Aitorney-General  replied  with  great  force  of  argotnen.,  and  recapitulating  many  of  the  arAmnents  nhir:l  he  had  before  vexed  at  the  trial,  anewed  that  the  savings  alluded  to  must  be  fallacious,  for  by  being  himself  a  dealer  the  defendant  neces  sorrily  gave  up  all  that  contralti  which  he  out  to  have  llaal  over  the  other  dealers,  -;ud  ingead  of  lowering  kept  up  the  market  price.  It  was  ouly  when  the  Commission  of  Public  Ac.‘  counts  was  formed,  and  he  expected  detection,  that  he  thought  °rearresting  any  errors;  and  even  then,  when  examined  before  the  House  of  Conlinonig,  be  staled  that  he  - STYLE=superscript  hati  no  other  profit  than  his  commi-sion  as  to  agent,  and  had  acted  only  upon  the  original  agreement  with  General  Delancey.  The  Ciurt  ordered  him  to  stand  committed  till  Friday,  and  then  to  he  brought  up  to  receive  hit  Mini  sentence.  la  the  KING  v.  DAVISON  t  the  Defendant,  who  vas  to  have  bees&amp;  brought  up  to  receive  judgment  this  tray,  has  been  ordere6  by  the  Court  to  he  detained  in  emtudy  till  the  seventh  day  of  next  Term,  and  then  to  he  brought  up.  ACCIDENTS  AND  OFIrENCES.  ELY,  rpm  s.—The  waters  at  Hv  have  been  hither  by  'l%  inches  than  ever  re:neinhered  ;  and  the  gale  4bf  Mind  on  the  29th  ult.  just  at  high  water,  presented  Fuca  a  spectacle,  n noily  oily noily  be  conceived,  but  cannot  be  properly  described.  waters  1.0110.4  over  the  hanks  In  a  truly  terrific  crate,  ani  th thdiitress  diitress thdiitress  of  the  inhabitant,  of  the  Fens  was  pitiable  to  a  grew  degree.  At  len.lth  the  haeilt:  s  tf,:iVe  I,asav  k  most  directions,  and  tunadated  uixty  thoii%etnii  acres  of  land  six  fret  deep,  insnlving  hnit-zes,  c:lttle.  stacks,  earn,  nod  every  thiog,  is  .'tie  general  ruin.  11l  short.  never  %vas  witne,s...d  such  .a  melancholy  scene  of  de de'traction.  'traction. de'traction.  The  Jam  Age  i.  estimate:l  :it  more  than  half  a  mil•  lion,  a  4  all  the  next  seasou  is  lost,  as  well  as  the  growing  crops,  ke.  Printed  and  Publig.hed  by  and  for  J  B.  BULL  and  J.  1)E  CAMP,  :It  the  011  . STYLE=superscript  ..ce  of  Le  Licari  Monde  ;  or,  Literary  and  AS&amp;  Sidi  11.  .../  _  -  .  e  ••  •  .."
