text
"A  PORTRAIT  OF  THE  DUKE  OF  YORK,  Engraticd  by  Scriven  from  a  masterly  Painting  by  Sir  Beechey,  WILL  BE  READY  FOR  DELIVERY  ON  SUNDAY  NEXT.  The  Character  of  His  Royal  Highness  will  be  written  by  Onesimus.  A  few  Fine  Impressions  of  His  MAJESTY  and  of  the  PRINCE  of  WALES  may  still  be  had,  price  Six-pence  Each.  The  unprecedented  applications  which  have  been  made  for  the  Index  to  the  First  Volume  of  the  National  Register  have  ex exhausted  hausted exhausted  the  First  Edition  of  the  Index,  and  the  Chronological  fable  of  the  most  Remarkable  Occurrences  of  the  past  Year.  A  Second  Edition  is  now  ready  for  delivery,  and  may  be  had  of  all  the  Newsmen,  pfice  Eight  Pence.  The  Public  in  general  will  find  it  their  particular  interest  to  advertise  in  the  Popular  nvening  Newspaper  entitled  TH  INQUISITOR,  which  is  published  every  Tu  ESDAY,  Thu  RSD  and  SATURDAY  Afternoons,  and  forwarded  by  the  Post  of  those  days  throughout  every  County  in  the  United  Kingdom.—  The  Office  for  THE  INQUISITOR  at  No.  11,  Catherine-street,  Strand.  Letters,  received  on  Friday  from  Jamaica,  confirm  the  intelligence  of  an  insurrection  in  Mexico,  in  conic conicquence  quence conicquence  of  which  the  Viceroy  ITUILIGITKV  was  deposed  and  imprisoned,  and  FERDINAND  VII.  proclaimed.  The  cause  of  this  rigour  towards  the  Viceroy  is  to  be  attributed  to  the  shuffling,  equivocating  conduct  he  observed  after  intelli-  •  (Ten&amp;  had  been  received  in  the  colonies  of  the  resistance  of  the  mother  countryto  the  ug-Arpation  of  the  BONAPARTEq.  Some  accused  hi►n  of  the  project  of  rendering  Mexico  an anindependant  independant anindependant  gate,  of  which  he  was  himself  to  be  the  Sove Sovereign  reign Sovereign  ;  but  the  general  opinion  went  to  impute  to  him  ii,.  tcutions  favourable  to  the  pretensions  of  the  Usurper."
