text
"liedneslay,  .3larek  1.  Mr.  (1  t,  ITT  .7  rose  to  inove  for  leave  to  tiring  in  a  Bill  for  thg,  Relief  of  Debtors  in  Ireland.  He  proposed  that  the  pro  v  i  s  i  on  t  of  the  Bill  should  he  similar  to  those  of  the  Act  of  MI,  with  a  few  exceptions,  which  he  should  afterwavils  submit  to  the  plea  : STYLE=superscript  -  sure  of  the  House.—Leave  granted.  On  the  motion  of  Mr.  Fo  ST3  it,  the  Irish  Bank  Note  Forgery  Prevention  Bill  was  read  a  third  time  and  passed.  On  the  motion  of:  Mr.  llustctssoti,  the  House  resolved  itself  into  a  Comtnittt:e  of  Suppiy,  to  whizh  were  referred  several  Accounts  relative  to  the  amount  of  Exchequer  Bills,  and  the  Loyalty  Loan.  In  the  Committee,  the  sum  of  5,000,000  was  voted  for  paying  off  Exchequer  Bills  to  the  same  aOtount,  for  the  service  of  the  year  180  S,  outstanding  and  unprovided  for.  Also  the  sum  of  47,65  W.  7s.  9d.  for  paying  ow  and  discharging  Annuities  due  •  undc.r  the  Loyalty  Eosin.  The  Speaker  then  resumed  the  Chair,  and  the  Report  was  ordered  to  brreceived  to-morrow.  On  the  motiost  of  Mr.  ITUsKISSON,  the  House  went  into  the  Committee  Of  Ways  and  Means,  in  w  hich  it  was  resolved,  That  there  be  17thctl  tke.  suns  of  5,000,000  by  Exchequer  Bills,  for  complr;ting  the  sum  •of  '20,000,000,  the  remainder  of  which  w;i  raiwil  by  the  ‘Var  Taxes  for  180S..7—Iteport  to  be  received  to tomorrow.  morrow. tomorrow.  Mr.  FOSTER  brought  up  a  Bill  for  o  Tanling  a  Bounty  on  the  impoctalion  of  Flax  Seed  into  Irelaud  rs STYLE=superscript  .—Read  a  first  time;  aiid  to  be  rewi  a  second  to-morrow.  BANKRUPT  TAWS.  cir  SA  Arun  L  ROM!  I.  I.lf  rose  to  make  lii,  promised  motion  on  this  subject.  It  certainly  svhS,  In  his  opinion  very  desirable  that  the  present  systro,  of  bankrupt  law's'  should  be  abolished  altogether,  and  another  substituted  in  its  place.  The  first  (*-  feet  he  should  notice  was,  that  according  to  the  present  sys system,  tem, system,  even  ;titer  a  bankrupt  bad  given  up  all  his  property  to  nts  creditoll,  Set  in  some  instances  he  had  creditors  who  did  not  come  in  with  the  rest  to  share  in  th  e  dividend.  Of  this  kind  was  the  case  in  'which  a  bankrupt  was  liable  for  a  debt,  in  con— conjunction  junction conjunction  with  ir  satrety  ;  the  surety  of  the  bankrupt  was  not  obliged  to  core  in  with  the  other  creditors,  and  receive  hi  share  of  the  dividends;  even  after  the  .  bank  rope  had  surrendered  all  his  property,  he  could  come  upon  hit  9  for  the  payment  of  the  debt  contracted  to  tAe  sutty,  when,•  if  the  bankrupt  had  honestly  complied  with  the  iiiiiipetjon  of  the  law  in  givinx  all  his  property,  •could  not  have  a  farthing  in  the  One  object  of  the  . STYLE=superscript  Bill  would  therefore  be,  that  such  sureties  should  come  in  With  the  other  creditors.  The  next  defect  he  ~  shbulq  notice  was,  it  ion  often  happened,  that  the  assignees  of  the  bankrupt's  estate  converted  the  property  to  their  own  tea;-  ,  pomry,  use  and  eugagini;  in  ruinous  speculations,  it  sometintes•  happened  that  the  assiolees  theniselves  lideanac  bankrupts,.  itigk  ..•  •  .  ."
