text
"JAN.  ID.  THE  THEATRE.  1141'-.IIIRKET.  On  Wednesday  night,  for  the  first  time  we  believe  this  se;soo,  the  Little  Theatre,  Haymarket,  overflowed  with  company.  The  powerful  magnet  that  a•iracted  such  crowds  to  that  lately  warty  deserted  house,  was  the  euisjunctiou  of  Mrs.  Siddct,►as  with  Mr.  Young's  genius  in  Shakespear's  tragedy  of  Jlacbeth.  The  ex excelleoce  celleoce excelleoce  of  Mrs.  Siddons  as  the  representative  of  Lady  Macbeth,  is  too  well  kouwn  to  require  an.  further  illustration,  we  will  therefore  cuufine  our  remarks  to  the  performance  of  Mr.  Young,  who,  for  the  fast  time,  appeared  is  the  arduous  character  of  itacertd.  Genius  is  rather  checked  than  assisted  by  the  example  of  its  predecessors.  For  instead  of  beudiug  all  its  faculties  uitnn  OM=  stugle  poiut,  the  acquiring  superior  excellence,  it  is  compelled  to.  divide  its  attention  and  weaken  its  powers,  by  continual  aims  to  avoid  imitation.  But  not  only  its  e  xert  imisare  c•ramped;  its  fame  suffers  no  small  diminution  of  its  lustre,  through  the  in inust  ust inust  ice  of  the  public  opinion.  w  hich  wrongly  believes  that  all  the  merit  it  possesses  is  due  to  the  stuly  it  has  made  of  the  works  of  other  Q.  Mr.  Y  wing  has  the  misfortune  of  belonging  to  the  cla,s  of  performers  of  true  genius,  and  is  therefore  exposed  to  all  the  du4adyantages  which  we  have  ineotioned.  Coutcioui  of  the  difficulties  of  his  sithation.  and  divesting  ourselves  of  all  ces,  we  witnessed  his  delineation  of  itlacielh  W  ith  the  highest  sa.  tisfaetion.  He  evidently  followed  time  iitopirations  of  his  feelings  and  judgment,  und  won:0  i  tatimh  ►te  isel  s.  suffered  theiMbi•  41005  disposition  of  his  hero's  naiad  to  horst  foi  1  - STYLE=superscript  11  not  only  in  words,  •he  production  of  the  poet,  but  in  looks,  in  the  expression  of  his  countenance  when  discontented  with  the  honours  lavished  upon  him,  and  which  ought  to  have  assuai.,,ed  his  toir-t  ler  greatness,  he  impatiently  vs  itnesses  the  elevation  of  the  King's  own  son:  His  soliloquy  when  departing  to  aunou.ice  Duncan  s  approach  to  his  Lady,  was  delivered  with  all  the  stiQed  enerp  of  passions  struggling  for  utterance.  in  his  address  to  the  ttuaginurn  dagger  he  was  teriiiinally  grand,  and  only  at  I*.s  conclusioe"
