text
"APRIL  9.  .  nce  is  felt  by  the  person  primarily  giving,  or  by  the  person  ulti-  Mately  receiving  Equally  vain,  therefore,  is  Mr.  Jackson's  suggested  preventive  of  stirred  swearing.  Seeing  how  things  are,  it  can  never  be  judiciously  observe  the  Select  Committee,  to  add  new  °fences  to  the  long  catalogue  already  enumerated  in,  the  penal  statutes  ;  nor  is  it  wise  to  diminish  the  sanctity  of  oaths  by  resorting  to  them  upon  all  occasions.  Where  solemn  declarations  hace  been  habitually  disregarded,  little  reli reliance  ance reliance  can  be  placed  upon  the  sanction  of  any  other  species  of  a.sse 'a.sseveration.'  Gentlemen  Directors  !—what  is  your  answer  to  this  ttatement  ?  Seriously  wishing  you  better  than  you  appear  to  wish  your-  selves,  .what,  let  me  ask,  could  induce  five  of  you,  who  were  not  absolutely  inculpated  by  the  Report  of  the  Select  Commit Committee  tee Committee  already  seen,  to  make  common  concerti  w  ith  the  sixth  member  of  your  body  ?Is  Mr.  W.  Thelluson,  as  my  Lord  Ellen-  borough  was  in  another  place,  indkpeniahle  at  your  council-  table  ?  Take  breath,  and  look  about  ;  before  you  settle  upon  swimming,  or  sinking,  together.  Light  bodies  are  found  to  be  most  buoyant.  If  you  would  float  surce  , STYLE=superscript  4ully,  try  the  stream  of  public  opinion.  There  i,  as  1  before  ventured  to  hint,  an  atnazing  magnanimity  in  your  proceedings.  %V  bile  Napoleon  Bonaparte  is  menacing  your  possessions,  George  Woodford  Thelluson  alone  engrosses  your  attention  !--Yes,  Gentlemen  Directors,  that  mighty  monster,  that  conqueror  of  the  continent,  that  destro  er  of  dynasties,  that  monopolist  of  mankind,  Napo Napoleon  leon Napoleon  Bonaparte,  who  has  long  cast  towards  your  empire  his  longing  eyes,  is  accordingly  intriguing  against  you  in  one  of  the  most  vulnerable  points  of  your  eastern  greatness.  Recollect,  I  en entreat  treat entreat  you,  with  whose  prowess  you  are  thus  likely  to  encounter.  Resembling  in  this  respect  a  true  Scotsman,  Bonaparte,  if  once  he  sets  foot  upon  good  ground,  will  not,  even  to  please  the'  Devil  himself,  be  induced  to  give  up  his  footing.  Might  it  not  have  been  as  well,  considering  all  circumstances,  if  you  had  permitted  a  certain  Marquis,  some  few  years  since,  to  rid  us  of  British  India,  as  far  as  the  toil  of  governing  and  defending  it  goes,  by  there  s4‘tting  up  for  him,elf?  England  wants  no  more  about  her  neck.  Still  :still  eN  u:t  ,  they  say,  that,  concerning  any  malpractises  lately  discovered,  46 STYLE=superscript  nu  one  case  of  corruption  or  abuse  affect,.  any  Member  o/•  our  Court  or,  that  there  is  found  nothing  which  traces  any  one  of  these  corrupt  or  improper  bargains  to  any  What,  however,  do  the  Select  Committee  mean,  when,  r:t  the  same  time,  they  complain  as  to  defici deficiency  ency deficiency  of  proof  Let  us  try  another  point.  You  have  not  the  detail  of  the  laid  before  you,  and  therefore  you  are  not  able  to  form  any  conclusion  respecting  Mr.  Thellnson.  Now,  Gentlemen  Directors!  does  the  digested  and  recorded  opinion  of  a  Select  Committee  of  the  British  Senate,  solemnly  asseverated,  go  for  nothing  among  you  ?  Really  this  furnishes  an  admit  able  specimen  of  the  modesty  of  the  Cabinet  of  Leaden-liall,—per Leaden-liall,—peradventure  adventure Leaden-liall,—peradventure  the  only  exhting  cabinet  that  would  presume  to  slur  the  honest  Report  of  a  Select  Committee  of  our  Imperial  Par Parliament  liament Parliament  !  It  is  painfill.  Gentlemen  Directors  !  after  such  practical  evi evidence  dence evidence  of  the  true  light  la  which  you  contemplate  the  Report  of  the  Committee  of  the  llqnse  of  Commons,  to  fet  i  d  sou  asserting  that  you  still  conceive  it  to  be  naturally  entitled  to  the  respect  and  confidence  of  the  Memhcrs  of  the  Court  of  —  AY  hat  !—you  place  tespect  and  confidence  in  this  Report,  but  yet  refuse  to  adopt  its  opinion  !  If-  the  Committee  have,  as  yourselves  own,  enquired  into  the  disposal  of  East-India  Patronage,  and  have  had  a  great  deal  of  evidence  before  them  on  that  ~  ,u STYLE=superscript  rue  i,  purartut  to  such  enquiry  and  such  evidence,  recommend  you  to  cartail  the  patronage  of  those  whose  diligence  hai  been  uwaiccessfal  in  preventinr.,  the  is  it,  with  these  things  before  you,antl  while  you  publicly  acknowledge  that  there  appear,:  to  have  been  a  de degree  gree degree  of  negligence  and  inattention  on  the  part  of  Mr,  Theduson  ..n2;:uutr  his  bow  is  it,  °he  227  asks,  that,  6  6 STYLE=superscript  under  these  circumstances,  the  name  of  Mr.  Theiluson  is  by  you,  in  tin•  Recanunendation  usually  submitted  to  the  Proprietors  in  favour  of  the  re-election  of  the  What  are  we  to  think  of  all  this  ?  Notwithstanding  great  deal  of  evidence  has  been  p:•oi:'aced,&#34;  still  you  talk  of  condemnation  without  e  ride  nee  ;Ind  though  the  Committee  of  tile  House  of  Commons  tell  you  `•  't  appcos.s  not  unreasonable  to  curtail  the  patronage  of  those  who  have  not  !icen  sufficiently  watchful  in  the  disposal  of  yet  y  ou  cyavely  aisure  us,  in  the  same  breath,  that  `•  it  would  be  manifest  in 'injustice'  to  Mr.  Thellusson,  and  against  the  opinion  of  the  committee  of  the  fit.  use  of  if  )on  were  now  to  cur curtail  tail curtail  his  patronage,  who,  as  you  say,  discovered  and  inattention  in  it.  Cannot  you,  Gentlemen  Di Directors,  rectors, Directors,  favour  the  world  with  some  new  system  of  logic  ?  Apra  7,  1809.  FOREIGN  INTELLIGENCE.  FROM  THE  I)UTCH  P.IPERS.  Homo.  PARIS,  MARCH  28.—The  Staff  of  the  late  Spanish  garrison  of  Saragossa,  consisting  of  five  Generals,  and  semi  or  eight  Adjut Adjutant-Generals,  ant-Generals, Adjutant-Generals,  arrived  in  Bayonne  on  the  13th  init.  ?A  It  IS,  MARCH  29.—Count  de  roentes  died  lately  at  Sara Saragossa  gossa Saragossa  of  a  malignant  fever,  which  he  caught  in  the  dungeou  where  he  was  confined  by  the  insurgents.  The  King  of  Spain  has  received  an  Address  from  the  Junta  of  Arragon  and  Saragossa,  whereby  they  assure  him  of  their  loyal  attachment;  and  the  A  rragonese  had  issued,  the  same  day  when  the  above  address  left  Saragossa,  a  Decree  relative  to  the,  measures  which  his  Majesty  has  adopted  to  repair  ti►:  d:Lmages  and  losses  which  the  war  has  occasioned  in  Saragossa.  RovrEaDAM,  Apan  , STYLE=superscript  4,—Letters  from  Germany  Viy,  that  a  Congress  is  to  be  held  on  the  Banks  of  the  Inn,  s  here  the  Emperors  Francis  and  Napoleon  intend  to  meet.  and  that  the  French  troops,  who  were  marching  through  Suabia,  have  re received  ceived received  orders  to  halt.  •  Al  A  DRID,  MARCH  IS.—The  Court  Gazette  contains  the  fol following  lowing following  article  :  We  this  moment  received  intelligence  from  Marshal  Soult,  which  states,  that  the  Corps  continauded  by  Romana,  and  com composed  posed composed  of  the  remains  of  at  my,  and  a  large  number  of  pea pea:;ants,  :;ants, pea:;ants,  was  completely  put  to  the  rout  on  the  7th  inst.  on  the  frontiers  of  Portugal,  and  5000  were  taken  prisoners.  The  far farther  ther farther  particulars  arc  ex  The  Bavarian  troti:ni  are  assemi4led  between  the  Inn  rind  the  Iser,  where,  as  it  all;  ears,  they  will  be  joined  by  the  W  irteta irtetaberg  berg irtetaberg  and  Darmstadt  contingents,  as  also  by  the  French  corps  ud udder  der udder  General  Oudinot..  The  Ilavarian  General  Wrede  arrived  on  the  21st  at  Land Landshut  shut Landshut  ;  and  as  soon  as  the  troops  under  his  command  shall  have  formed  an  army,  the  hereditary  Prince  Is  expected.  The  Ba Bavarian  varian Bavarian  corps  between  the  Inn  and  the  Iser,  will,  we  are  assured,  he  augmented  to  80,000  men.  It  is  now  c:iutoned  between  Strau Straubingand  bingand Straubingand  Landshut,  and  between  the  latter  place  and  Muhldorf.  Tete  head-quarters  of  General  Oudinot  will  next  week  be  re removed  moved removed  to  Munich,  and  those  of  the  Marshal  Duke  of  Dantzic  re  expected  at  Augsburgh.  On  the  Inn  and  on  the  Tyrol,  there  are  but  few  Austrian  troops.  The  accounts  from  Carinthia  speak  of  the  assembling  of  an  army  in  the  Circle  of  the  Lay  bach,  which  we  are  assured  will  be  commanded  by  the  Archduke  Charles.  The  Archduke  Ferdinand  will  command  the  army  in  Gallicia  ;  who  w  ill  have  the  command  in  Bohemia,  is  not  known.  There  is  a  report  that  a  great  army  of  reserve  will  be  formed  in  the  circle  of  Vienna,  which  will  be  joined  by  a  part  of  the  Ilungariau  FRANKFORT,  MARCH  26.—1  t  is  ui.slerstood  that  the  con  tingent  of  the  Prince  of  Nassau  will  arrive  in  a  few  days  in  Franconia.  The  troops  of  the  Grand  Duke  of  NVartzburgh  are  complete,  bai  cantoned  in  Wortzburgh,  and  along  the  Maine,  and  nothing  is  yet  known  of  their  further  destination  Detach•  ments  of  from  2  to  SOO  men  arrive  at  Mentz  almost  daily,  from  ci-devant  Belgium,  and  inure  are  - STYLE=superscript  expected  from  the  di3trik.s  of  util  Liege."
