text
".1  THE  N  10NAL  REt  IsTE  It.  themselves  in  other  homes.  Thus  we  proceeded  to  the  Cosso  (a  peat  street  in  Saragmsa)  where  we  made  our ourselves  selves ourselves  masters  of  the  buildings  of  the  Public  Schools  and  Univerety.  The  enemy  endeavoured  to  oppose  miners  to  riiners;  hilt  less  used  to  this  sort  of  operation,  their  millers  svere  every  day  discovered  and  suilbeated.  This  mode  of  besiegin  retnLred  its  progress  slow,  but  sure,  and  less  destructive  to  the  army.  While  three  companies  of  miners  and  et  ;'.ht  companies  of  sappers  carried  on  this  suliterrane suliterraneous  ous suliterraneous  war,  the  consequences  of  which  were  so  dreadful,  the  fire  en  the  town  was  kept  up  by  mortars.  Ten  days  after  the  ati.ack  bad  begun,  the  surrender  of  the  town  was  anti anticipated.  cipated. anticipated.  The  army  had  possessed  itself  of  one  third  of  the  houses,  and  fortified  itself  in  them.  The  Church  which  contained  the  image  of  Our  Lady  of  Pilar,  which  by  so  many  miracles  had  promised  to  defend  the  town,  was  bat battered  tered battered  down  by  bombs,  and  no  longer  habitable.  The  Duke  of  Montebello  deemed  it  necessary  to  take  possession  of  the  loft  hank  of  the  river,  in  order  that  his  tire  might  reach  ti:c  middle  of  the  town.  Th  e  G  enera  l  o  f  Division,  Gaza'',  made  himself  master  of  the  bridge  by  a  sudden  and  itnpe itnpetuous  tuous itnpetuous  attack,  *n  the  morning  of  the  17th  February.  A  battery  of  fifty  pieces  was  played  oft'  at  three  o'clock  in  the  afternoon.  A.  battalion  of  the  91h  regiment  attacked  and  took  possession  of  a  very  large  monastery,  the  walls  of  which  were  of  brick,  and  from  three  to  four  feet  thick.  General  Gazon  then  repaired  with  rapidity  to  the  bridge,  over  which  the  insurgents  made  their  retreat  to  the  town  ;  he  killed  a  vast  number,  made  4000  prisoners,  amongst  whom  were  two  Generals,  twelve  Colonels,  nineteen  Colonels,  and  230  Officers.  He  took  thirty  pieces  of'  artil artillery.  lery. artillery.  Nearly  alt  the  troops  of  the  line  in  the  town  had  be beset  set beset  this  important  part,  which  had  been  threatened  since  the  10:h.  At  the  smite  moment  the  Duke  of  Abrantes  en entered  tered entered  thc  Cos  - STYLE=superscript  so  throu:rb  several  covered  ways,  and  by  means  of  No  small  mines,  blew  up  the  buildings  of  the  Schools.  ACer  these  esents,  terror  was  spread  throughout  the  t4yru.  The  Junta,  in  order  to  procure  delay,  and  obtain  time  to  abate  the  terror  of  the  inhabitants,  sought  a  por porky  ky porky  ;  but  their  had  faith  was  known,  and  thi4  artifice  was  tiselets.  Thirty  other  houses  were  possessed  by  undermin undermining,  ing, undermining,  or  by  mines.  At  length,  on  the  21st  of  February,  the  whole  town  was  possessed  by  our  troops  ;  15,000  infantry  and  2000  cavalry  laid  down  their  arms  at  the  gate  of  Tor Tortilla,  tilla, Tortilla,  and  40  flags  and  150  pieces  of  cannon  were  delivered  up.  The  insurgents  lost  20,000  men  during  the  siege  ;  13,000  were  found  in  the  hospitals;  500  died  daily.  The  Duke  of  Montebello  would  allow  no  capitulation  to  the  10  - STYLE=superscript  ,var  of  Saragossa.  He  only  published  the  following  pro provision,  vision, provision,  :  I  Z  ,  Tlie  warrison  shall  at  noon,  on  the  21st,  lay  d  own  th  e  i  r  L  •  arms  at  the  gate  of  Portilla,  where  they  shall  remain  pri prisoners  soners prisoners  of  war.  Those  of  the  troops  of  the  line  who  arc  willing  to  take  the  oath  to  King  Joseph,  may  he  allowed  to  enter  into  his  service.  In  cage  this  entrance  shall  not  be  permitted  the  Minister  of  War  to  the  King  of  Spain,  they  shall  prisoners  of  war  and  sent  to  France.  Th  e  worship  a  G.t  shall  be  reverenced.  All  the  artillery  and  ammunition  of  every  kind  shall  be  delivered  lip.  All  the  arms  shall  be  &amp;posited  at  the  doors  of  the  dillerent  houses,  aild  collected  by  the  respective  Alcades].  The  mg  . STYLE=superscript  ezines  of  corn,  rice,  and  fruit,  which  have  been  found  in  town,  are  very  considerable.  The  Duke  of  liontcheila  has  nominated  General  Laval  Governor  of  4a 4araqos4n.  raqos4n. 4araqos4n.  A  Deput.qion  of  the  Priesthood,  and  different  inhal)ifants,  bus  set  out  for  :tiadrid.  Palafox  is  danger danger-4/11.4iv  -4/11.4iv danger-4/11.4iv  ill.  lk  wai  the  object  of  the  contempt  of  the  whole  hostile,  army,  who  accused  him  or  arrogance  and  meanness.  lie  'as  never  seen  where  there  was  any  danger.  The  Count  de  Fneules,  Grandee  of  Spain,  who  had  been  arrest arrested  ed arrested  by  the  ii.surgunts  t  0  months  ago  on  his  estateF,  was  t'oontl  in  a  e‘  , STYLE=superscript  :n  t  reon  of  eight  feet  square,  and  rel  ease  d  :  no  idea  can  lo  formed  of  the  miseries  ha  has  imdcrione.  MARCH  19.  IMPERIAL.  PARLIAMENT.  POUSF.  OF  LORDS.  Varch  13.  The  !loyal  Asseot  was  given  by  ComtniFsion  to  Fig  - STYLE=superscript  Meer,  Public  and  Private  Bilis.  Aran,  the  former  were  the  Briti-h  :Uhl  Irish  Militia  Transfer  Bill!  ;  the  Iri,h  Distilleries;  the  Spirit  Import  and  Export  Regulation  Lill;  the  Flax  Seed  Bounty  Pill;  and  to  Campbell':,  Bassett's,  and  Cregson's  Di Divorce  vorce Divorce  Bilk.  do  busiiies9  of  irrportaw.e  durinz  the  remainder  of  The  week.  HOUSE  OF  OMMONS.  Monda.:,,  March  13.  CITATIGnS  kGIINST  Tur  ovicc  or  YORK.  The  SecauTa  toe  at  W.t  a  should  lend  his  attention  more  particularly  to  Airs.  Clarke  ;  and  as  to  her  testimony,  he  he.  lieved  the  majority  of  the  Pause  would  go  with  hiin  in  declar declariug  iug declariug  that  no  reliance  whatever  could  be  placed  on  it.—(  Cr.:Ls  of  No!  /10  !  no!  and  11::ar!  hear  !  )--If  the  essential  part  of  her  evidence  ought  not  to  be  credited,  they  ()tight  cer certainly  tainly certainly  to  throw  it  out  of  their  corsideratioo.  The  only  point  in  which  they  could  lay  blame  to  his  Royal  Highness,  rya-,  the  supposition  that  she  possessed  a  deerve  of  iniblenee,  and  that  the  Duke  was  in  the  practice  of  complying  with  her  requests.  In  either  of  these  cases,  the  House  must  he  satisfied  that  she  ought  not  to  haye  had  that  influence  at  all.  ni  first,  as  to  the  case  of  Brook  and  Knight,  in  which  lie  pointed  out  a  ma material  terial material  contradiction  between  the  evidence  of  Mr.  Robert  K  night,  and  Mrs.  Clarke,  with  respect  to  t  he  slip  of  paper.  The  next  point  was  the  consideration  of  French's  Levy.  .A;111  here  he  noticed  a  material  difference  in  the  evidence  of  Miss  Taylor  and  Mrs.  Clarke.  He  then  referred  to  the  ease  of  Major  Tony  n,  end  par particularly  ticularly particularly  that  part  which  involved  the  authenticity  of  the  note.  —Every  Gentleman,  he  observed,  had  given  his  opinion  upon  this  question,  but  no  one  in  reading  it  could  inform  himself  of  what  it  meant.  To  he  sure,  it  chewed  that  some  intercourse  must  have  taken  place  between  his  Royal  Highness  and  Mrs.  Clarke,  but  there  was  not  the  least  reason  to  suppose  from  the  , STYLE=superscript  contents  of  that  note,  that  any  corrupt  practices  were  to  he  im imputed  puted imputed  to  his  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  York.  The  next  case  was  that  of  Colonel  Shaw,  but  it  would  be  recollected  that  this  Gentleman  owed  his  promotion  to  the  good  offices  or  Sir  if.  Burrard,  who  had  known  him  and  his  father  from  a  very  early  period.  With  respect  to  the  case  of  Major  Turner,  he  was  sur surprised  prised surprised  and  astonished  when  he  bad  heard  it  argued,  that  it  ktee  , STYLE=superscript  not  the  bounden  duty  of  the  Commander  in  Chief  to  stop  the  resignation  of  that  officer  notil  proper  inquiry  had  been  made  as  to  the  truth  of  the  charges  which  were  alleged  against  The  Right  Hon.  Baronet  then  noticed  the  case  of  Hoyt  ler,  which,  lie  observed,  depended  entirely  upon  the  I  .esteno  13  S  , STYLE=superscript  of  himself  and  Airb.  Clarke.  It  is  not  likely  that  a  person  tt  ho  bad  beer,  proved  to  he  in  the  habits  of  such  close  intimacy  with  Mrs.  Clarke,  should  have  advanced  10W.  In  every  instance  of  corruption  the  House  should  be  perfectly  satisfied  that  a  successful  termination  had  been  put  to  the  alleged  acts.  Could  the  House  come  to  any  such  conclusion  front  the  evidence  they  had  head!  The  Hottse  was  in  possessioa  or  the  evidence—they  had,  as  it  were,  got  behind  the  scene  of  corruption,  and  they  had  reason  to  believe  that  it  was  unknown  to  his  Royal  High Highness  ness Highness  the  Commander  in  Chief—(  !Lear  !  hear  !  hear  !)  Sir  FR  A  NCI%  Br  ttnuTT  said,  a  more  difficult  task  than  that  which  was  now  imposed  on  him,  in  the  execution  of  a  pain painful  ful painful  duty,  he  could  not  recollect.  It  was  extraordinary  to  see  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  the  Attorney  Ge General,  neral, General,  and  a  whole  Phalanx  of  Crown  Lawyers,  tv  lin,  in  all  criminal  arraignments,  usually  stood  forward  in  support  of  the  public  cause,  in  this,  step  out  of  thelteaten  course,  and  become  the  advocates  of  the  accused;  and  not  merely  adopt  the  part  of  defenders,  but  even,  before  the  case  comes  under  their  fair  consideration,  making  up  their  minds  to  a  perfect  conviction  of  the  innocence  of  the  party  they  were  about  to  defend  (  Order  !  orrice!  re-cchoeal  front  the  Ministerialsidc  of  the  llGu.se).  The  Rt.  Hon.  Gentleman,  instead  of  , STYLE=superscript  Ltionlii:;r.  up  with  the  itepartiality  of  a  judge,  (to  the  contrary  bvcatne  the  A  :Iv  ()cote  for  the  crimi criminal,  nal, criminal,  and  in  the  absence  of  ealidinir  kept  catching  at  pitiful  tritlet  to  support  his  case,  and  after  all  made  a  most  injudicious  defence.  The  Chancellor  of  the  Lieberettr  had  said,  that  .111  the  cvideucc  P4_TB00016"
