text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  APRIL  L  E  I  ST-  I  It'  1.1  110  USE.  A  Quarterly  General  Court  of  the  Proprietors  was  held  on  Wednesda.  The  Chairman  acquainted  the  Court  that  he  had  received  the  Report  of  the  Committee  appointed  by  the  House  of  Commons  to  investigate  the  abuses  of  patronage  iu  the  ap appointments  pointments appointments  of  writers,  cadets,  &amp;e.  for  India,  which,  by  permission  of  the  Court,  watt  then  read,  It  contained  a  full  detail  of  all  those  appointments  which,  is  the  course  of  the  Inquiry  of  the  Committee,  appeared  to  have  been  obtained  throdgh  undue  inffnence,  or  through  some  pecu pecuniary  niary pecuniary  induceMent,  an  acquitted,  hi  . STYLE=superscript  the  most  unequivocal  manner,  the  Directors  of  having  had  'any  knowledge  of,  or  participation  in  those  abuses.  Mr.  JAciisoN  trusted,  after  the  Report  which  had  been  just  read,  which  filled  him  with  horror  at  the  moral  de depravity  pravity depravity  exhibited  throughout  the  Whole  of  it,  and  which  was  so  perfectly  new  to  him,  that  the  Court  would  pause  and  take  some  step  likely  to  stop  the  Course  of  . STYLE=superscript  abuses  so  enormous.  if  some  strong  and  prompt  measure  was  pot  quickly  adopted,  no  man  could  be  surprised  when  the  re.  newal  of  the  Charter  of  the  Company  should  •  be  applied  for,  that  that  renewal  should  be  refused,  and  the  Coni Conipany  pany Conipany  be  completely  annihilated.  It  was  impossible  for  the  Company  to  bow  under  such  a  report,  without  the  dan danger  ger danger  of  utter  extinction.  Had  the  propositions  submitted  to  the  Court  in  the  year  1800,  for  the  suppression  of  pa patronage,  tronage, patronage,  but  which  had  been  over-ruled  by  a  majority  of  140,  obtained,  he  could  not  say  by  the  fairest  means,  been  agreed  to,  it  cause  for  this  report  could  not  now  exist,  and  abuses  so  foul  would  have  been  stopped  in  limine.  He  firmly  hoped  that  the  Directors  would  not  now  falter  in  their  course,  but  would  reader  every  aid  in  their  power  towards  furthering  the  inqUiry  iow  goinc  , STYLE=superscript  forward  ;  and  if  any  do document,  cument, document,  likely  to  throw  new  lig  ht  on  the  matter  in  ques question,  tion, question,  yet  remained  in  their  possession,  that  they  would  produce  it  to  the  House  of  Commons  without  delay.  The  Chairman  proposed  the  followinc  , STYLE=superscript  Resolutions  :  that,  on  account  of  the  increase  orbusiness,  a  Military  Secretary  shall  be  appointed,'  with  a  salary  of  1090/.  per  an annuni,  nuni, annuni,  -  •  _  _  That  two  Assistant  Secretaries  shall  be  appointed  for  Indian  correspondence,  with  a  salary  of  6001.  per  annum  each.  And,  That  a  Seminary  shall  be  formed  for  the  education  of  Cadets  for  the  Company's  service,  independent  of  the  Royal  Aca.  demy  at  _  _  Thum  Itcsolutions  were  agreed  to,  remaining  subject,  how however,  ever, however,  to  the  future  consideration  of  the  Court.  REPORT  OF  THE  SELECT  CO  NQIITT  EE  OF  TUE  C93IIIIONS  A  PrOIIIIT.•  ED  TO  INQUIRE  INTO  THE  ABUSE  OF  EAST  INDIA  PA,  TROWAGE.  This  Report  contains  a  voluminous  detail,  of  which  we  con conceive  ceive conceive  that  a  brief  abstract  will  be  sufficient  for  the  general  Reader.  A  number  of  abuses  have  been  brought  to  light  ;  but  it  is  satisfactory  to  know  that  there  appears  no  proof  whatever  either  of  corruption  or  connivance  on  the  part  of  any  one  of  the  Directors,  A  remedy  has  been  proposed  by  the  Committee  as  a  check  on  the  purchase  of  such  appointments,  namely,  That  a  bond  shall  be  given  by  the  parent,  guardian,  or  friend  of  every  person  receiving  a  nomination,  containing  a  penalty  to  be  paid  on  any  future  proof  that  a  valuable  consideration  was  given  for  such  This  retrospective  provision  appears,  how however,  ever, however,  to  demand  a  strict  inquiry,  and  a  very  serious  discussion.  The  following  are  some  of  the  instances  of  abuse  quoted  by  the  Committee,  from  which  it  appears,  that  the  patronage  of  the  Directors  was  perverted  to  improper  uses  by  inferior  agents  :  221  CADETSUIPS.  The  sales  of  those  nppointmems  were  extremely  numeron4.  They  were  sold  at  from  150  to  300  guineas.  The  general  agent  in  this  branch  of  the  business  was  Mr.  Anticslev  Shee,  who  was  represented  by  Mr,  Bankes,  the  Chairman  of  the  Committee,  as  having  grossly  prevaricated.  A  great  number  of  other  names  are  mentioned,  which  it  is  not  necessarsy  to  lay  before  the  public.  as  they  merely  neguciated  an  exchange  from  Bengal  to  Madrai,  and  vice  versa,  Here  follows  a  detailed  account  of  the  measures  employed  by  the  Company  for  the  prevention  of  those►  ;ambles,  We  shall  not  enter  into  the  history  of  precautions,  which  experience  ltati  proved  to  be  toetfectual.  ABUSES  PATRON:IOE  !  The  Tempter  saw  his  time,  the  work  he  plied  :  Stocks,  anti  subscriptions,  pour  on  every  side;  Till,  all  the  demon  makes  his  full  descent  In  one  abundant  shower  of  cent  per  cent,  Sinks  deep  within  him,  and  poi  , STYLE=superscript  ,esses  whole,  Then  dubs  Director,  and  secures  bis  soul  1  I'o  PE.  T  9  THE  HONOUR  ABLE  THE  CO%IPAIIK  OF  MERCHANTS  TRADING  TO  THE  LAST  INDIES.  GCNTLEMrN,  I  liave  carefully  inspected  the  Report  of  the  select  Commit Committee  tee Committee  appointed  by  the  United  Commons  to  enqire  into  the  disposal  of  the  Patronage  of  the  Last-India  Company.  What  do  I  there  find  ?  It  strikes  use,  as  it  struck  this  Select  Committee,  that  the  human  mind,  'fertile.  in  self-deception,  accommodates  itself  with  wonderftil  facility  to  overcoming  scruples,  or  applies  a  perverse  ingenuity  to  . STYLE=superscript  evading  all  restrictions,  which  stand  in  the  way  of  present  Gentlemen,  this  is  a  try  ing  crisis.  We  live  in  an  age  of  in inquisition,  quisition, inquisition,  which,  unless  followed  up  by  reformation,  will  termi terminate  nate terminate  in  revolution.  The  princes  of  Leadenhall  7  street,  as  well  as  greater  princes  than  they,  must  submit  to  senatorial  investi investigation,  gation, investigation,  and  defer  to  the  dictates  of  popular  Opinion.  Your  dynasty,  Gentlemen,  is  not  quite  ancient'enoughlo  sanctify  its  abuses.  Though  you  have  subdued  the  great  continent  of  Asia,  you  must  not  expect  to  deceive  the  most  enlightened  people  in  Europe.  One  thing  rather  gratifies  me.  lam  Pleased  to  ob observe,  serve, observe,  if  such  a  discovery  can  at  all  please,  that  corruption  journies  eastward  as  well  as  westward  ;  and  that  the  good  men  of  Leaden4lall  may  finally  shake  hands  With  the  great  men  of  St.  James's.  We,  it  seems,  have  all  sinned,  Let  him  whO  is  without  sin,  therefore,  cast  the  first  stone,  There  is  much  dis distinction,  tinction, distinction,  civically  speaking,  between  good  men  and  true  mei,  ;  hut  ought  it  not  to  be  matter  of  regret,  unquestionably  and  he heminently,  minently, heminently,  that  good  men  are  so  seldom  true  men  also  ?  Where,  however,  is  the  particular  enormity,  it  may  he  said,  of  an  East-India-Director,  as  in  the  case  of  George  Woodfoul  Thelluson,  even  though  a  Member  of  the  British  Commons,  permitting  his  Woodford,  to  acquire  nearly  10,000/.  by  East  , STYLE=superscript  lndia  Appointments  !  What  if,  to  say  the  best  of  it,  his  patronage  and  confidence  appear  to  have  been  most  grossly  do  not  these  amicable  accommodations  conti continually  nually continually  take  place  ?  Neither  dead  gentlemen,  as  in  the  cases  of  Mr.  Devaynes,  and  Sir  Lionel  Duel!,  nor  dead  ladies,  as  Lady  Leigh  and  Lady  Lumm,  tell  tales,  or  attempt  to  disclose  the  secrets  of  the  prison-house  :--why  then  should  living  gem'snen,  or  living  ladies,  be  compellable  to  condemn  themselves  and  in injure  jure injure  those  whom  their  exertions  were  intended  to  benefit  ?  0,  this  impertinent  'modern  system  of  inquiries  !—O,  these  Smiths  and  Wardles  of  onr  age  !  As  for  Mr.  Etches,  who  seems  to  have  got  about  7  , STYLE=superscript  15/,  partly  through  niy  Lord  Castlereagh,  by  selling  an  East-India  Ap..  pointinent  or  two  ;  when  we  learn  all  this  was  account  of  '  Servict  performed  for  the  what  loyal  subject,  considering  other  rewards  of  the  same.description,  can  obt;co"
