text
"EXTRACT  OF  A  LETTER  FROM  VIENNA,  FEB.  9.  44 STYLE=superscript  A  messenger  has  just  arrived  from  St.  Petershurgh,  with  dispatches  for  the  Russian  Ambassador,  brings  intelligence  of  lan  attempt  having  been  made  upon  the  life  of  the  Grand  Duke  Constantine.  The  circumstances  are  as  follow  :—Constantine  was  walking  one  evening  at  some  distance  from  the  Palace,  with  an  Aid-de-Camp,  both  of  them  dressed  in  a  kind  of  blue  mantle,  generally  worn  at  Petershurgh—a  man  came  behind,  with  intent  to  shoot  Constantine.  hut  from  the  similarity  of  dress,  he  mistook  the  Aid-de-Camp  for  the  Grand  Duke.  lie  fired,  and  the  Aid-de-Camp  immediately  fell.  The  body  was  instantly  seized  by  several  men,  and  dragged  to  a  considerable  distance.  On  the  firing  of  the  shot,  the  Grand  Duke  sought  safety  by  eight,  and  took  refuge  in  the  Palace.  A  Proclamation  was  published,  offering  a  reward  for  the  discovery  of  the  offender.  An  order  was  at  the  same  time  sent  to  the  Post  Office.  to  open  and  examine  all  the  letters,  and  to  detain  all  those  that  had  any  reference  to  this  business.  Of  this  description  a  great  number  was  fund.  The  people  in  general,  hut  more  particularly  the  Noblef,  are  highly  dissatisfied  with  the  measures  that  are  pur pursaed  saed pursaed  ;  to  which,  it  is  the  universal  persuasion,  that  Alexander  is  altogether  influenced  bv  (;ocs,;iatine.  It  is  added,  that  Con.  stantine  is  supposed  to  havt  a  :zerret  promise  from  Bonaparte,  of  being  speedily  ti:  :he  Throne,  in  place  of  Alexander,  who  is  not  thought  to  isry.sess  a  sufficiently  derisive  character  for  the  great  /Avis  that  Bonaparte  has  still  to  carry  into  M  , STYLE=superscript  )it  important  discoveries  have  been  made  in  the  Se Se'ect  'ect Se'ect  CominiVee  with  respect  to  the  abuse  of  East  India  Patronage.  The  sale  of  Writerships,  Cadetships,  and  of  l'oyascs  to  Bombay  and  China  (the  last  of  which,  it  seems,  is  an  article  in  great  demand),  has  been  proved  in  the  clearest  and  most  unequivocal  way  ;  and,  we  trust,  the  Report  will  be  made  before  the.  annual  election  of  Direc Direcors  ors Direcors  shall  come  on.  Some  very  curious  anecdotes  have  c‘ine  to  light.  Among  others  we  hear  of  two  Writerships  ilaving  been  givpn  to  one  of  his  Majesty's  Ministers,  who,  st  the  time,  was  in  a  high  public  situation,  instituted  for  et  c  rtcpose  of  check  and  controm/  of  India  affairs,  by  way  •  sargain  for  a  Seat  in  a  certain  Assembly  !  Now  a  double  question  of  corruption  will  arise  out  of  this  fact.  At  the  known  market  price  of  these  commodities,  two  soriterships  are  worth  more  than  one  seat.  Query—Did  the  Minister  pay  in  the  difference  to  the  common  fund  of  corruption,  or  pocket  the  difference?  It  is  immaterial  to  the  public  which  of  the  alternatives  shall  be  proved  ;  hut  enough,  we  And,  has  come  out  to  shew,  that  the  very  Minister  appoint appointed  ed appointed  to  watch  over  the  abuses  of  the  Compary,  thus  set  an  oxampte  of  a  total  and  shameless  dereliction  of  his  duty.  The  disi!overies  made  by  this  Committee  will,  we  trust,  lay  the  f..  , STYLE=superscript  initlhtiou.  for  a  general  inquiry  into  the  disteibtp"
