text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  APRIL  9.  ACCIDENTS,  OFFENCES,  arc.  A  Mom'sTr.a.-4.  brutal  fellow,  whose  dress  is  very  genteel,  has  for  some  days  infested  Mary-le-bone  Gro  , STYLE=superscript  inds,  Paddington.  and  Hyde  Park.  His  object  has  been  to  treat  with  the  greatest  indecency  the  female  sex.  The  most  respectably  dressed  women  are  the  particular  objects  of  the  monster's  attacks.  A  lady  of  the  name  of  Pierce,  who  resides  in  .lernivn-street,  was  attacked  by  the  ruffian  near  the  King's-Head  and  Artichoke,  in  Mary-lc Mary-lcbone-Fields.  bone-Fields. Mary-lcbone-Fields.  on  Friday  evening  last,  and  he  treated  her  in  the  most  disgusting  manner  for  nearly  ten  minutes.  Miss  Sand,  corn  -  panion  and  lady's  maid  to  Mrs.  Croft,  in  Bentinck-street,  also  fell  into  the  monster's  clutches  on  Monday  evening,  and  his  brutal  conduct  threw  her  into  hysterics,  in  which  situation  she  was  found  in  Park-lane.  He  was  luckily  taken  into  custody  on  Tuesday,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Waltham-Green,  and  safely  lotl,zed  in  the  cage,  for  an  assault  on  the  two  Miss  Catoley's.  at  Turnham-Green.  The  monster  is  supposed  to  be  a  man  of  property,  bat  lost  to  the  nicer  feelings,  his  method  having  been  to  torture  those  whom  he  attacked  He  has  been  very  active,  as  he  has  committed  a  variety  p  f  outrages  in  different  parts  in  a  very  short  time.  CORONERS'  INQUEST.—On  Monday  morning  last,  it  was  dis disco%  co% disco%  crud  that  a  handsome  young  woman,  of  previous  unblemished  character,  had  clandestiaely  left  a  coffee  hour,  in  the  neigh neighbourhood  bourhood neighbourhood  of  Cavendish-square,  where  site  was  bar-maid  ;  and  it  was  ascertained  in  the  course  of  the  day  that  she  had  taken  upwards  of  t2Ol.  in  ready  money,  besides  having  got  money  for  bills,  &amp;c.  unaccounted  for.,  On  Thursday,  the  body  of  a  young  woman,  well  dressed,  was  found  in  the  New  River,  and  some  guineas  were  found  in  her  pockets.  The  Coroner's  Jury  return returned  ed returned  a  verdict  of  found  drowned  ;  and  on  the  same  day  the  body  timed  out  to  be  that  of  Miss  S  ,  the  bar-maid.  She  i►  tppeared  had  been  seduced  from  her  integrity  by  a  loose  fellow,  aupposed  to  be  a  man  of  consequence,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  tshe  A  Po  INT  or  Horton  a.—A  few  days  since  two  French  Offi Officers,  cers, Officers,  prisoners  of  war  on  parole  at  Bishops  NValtham,  having  had  a  dispute,  they  agreed  to  decide  the  atfair  in  an  honourable  way.  A  meeting  was  appointed  in  a  field  near  the  town,  but  a  difficulty  occurred  in  procuring  weapons.  It  appears  that  the  combatants  were  only  in  possession  of  one  sword,  and  a  case caseknife.  knife. caseknife.  French  ingenuity  made  a  pike  of  the  knife,  by  confin confining  ing confining  it  to  the  end  of  a  stick  ;  but  the  sword  being  considered  the  hest  weapon,  they  resolved  to  cast  lots  who  should  have  it.  Af After  ter After  the  sword  and  knife  had  been  fairly  placed  in  their  hands,  the  duel  commenced,  and  the  swordsman  gave  his  antagonist  three  wounds,  one  on  the  face,  another  on  the  arm,  and  a  third  across  the  body.  The  pikeman  gave  several  dangerous  thrusts,  and  both  fell  on  the  ground;  they  remained  bleeding  and  dis disabled,  abled, disabled,  until  they  were  discovered  by  several  passengers  who  conveyed  them  to  a  public-house  in  the  vicinity.  The  Officer  who  received  the  cuts  from  the  sabre  was  not  expected  to  re recover.  cover. recover.  His  antagonist  is  fortunately  out  of  danger.  SW  NDLIN  G.-A  man,  of  the  name  of  Thomas  Johnson,  has  undergone  three  examinations  at  Queen-square  Office,  on  vari various  ous various  charges  of  frauds  of  different  descriptions.  He  is  a  good goodlooking  looking goodlooking  man,  and  made  his  appearance  in  London  a  few  weeks  since,  and  represented  himself  as  a  gentleman  farmer,  from  Lin  colnst►ire.  The  charg-s  against  him  are  instituted  by  tradespeo tradespeople  ple tradespeople  whom  he  has  succeeded  in  defrauding  to  a  very  considerable  amount.  Mr.  Flemming,  an  upholsterer,  furnished  a  house  for  the  Prisoner,  and  his  bill  came  to  about  SOL  and  he  has  succeeded  in  getting  goods  of  a  number  of  persons,  having  either  three  or  four  houses  in  his  occupation  at  a  time,  in  the  different  parts  of  the  town.  He  always  had  about  him  an  abundant  supply  of  Newhaven  bank-notes  of  every  denomination,  which  he  has  cir circulated  culated circulated  about  the  town.  The  notes  are  well  calculated  to  deceive,  they  having  been  very  dexterously  maraifactured,  and  made  pay payable  able payable  in  London.a:  some  pretended  firm,  resembling  the  name  of  a  real  firm,  and  beginning  with  the  first  name,  but  the  other  names  alter  by  letters,  but  bearing  a  strong  similitude.  It  happens  that  there  is  no  Newhaven  bank,  so  that  these  notes  are  no  bet better  ter better  than  fictitious  shop-bills,  resembling  hank  rotes.  Several  of  these  sham  notes  have  been  circulated  in  the  Fleet  and  other  prisons,  and  the  name  of  Chamberlain,  an  old  name  resorted  to  by  swiudlers,  in  similar  transactions,  appears  on  tire  notes,  which  the  public  are  cautioned  against.  The  prisoner  will  undergo  another  examination  this  morning.  Gillmore,  the  Ulcer,  has  recovered  some  of  the  property  of  the  claimants.  Lieutenant  Colour!  J.  W.  SP  LEo,  witose  trial  arid  conviction  for  Bigamy,  at  the  Surrey  Assizes,  we  stated  in  a  fonaer  Paper,  Was  seoteoettri  o  at  the  close  of  the  Session,  to  jeYea  yearn'  trash trashportation.  portation. trashportation.  On  Sunday  evening,  between  seven  and  eight  o'clock,  Some  villains,  during  the  absence  of  a  young  couple  named  Johnson,  residing  in  Poplar-row,  near  the  Elephant  and  Castle,  while  they  were  attending  divine  service,  knocked  at  the  door,  and  inquired  of  a,  young,  girl  who  opened  it,  if  her  master  or  mistresb  was  at  home,  and  being,  informed  they  were  gone  to  Chapel,  they  went  away  ;  very  shortly  after  a  woman  went  to  the  house,  .ind  told  the  girl  that  her  mother  (who  lived  its  the  neighbour•  hood)  wanted  her  immediately.  The  child  went  ;  and  during  her  absence  the  villains  returned,  opened  the  door,  and  in  a  few  minutes  ribbed  the  house  of  a  quantity  of  linen  which  had  been  purchased  but  a  few  days  by  the  new  married  couple,  and  alscr  of  hank  notes  to  the  amount  of  40  1 STYLE=superscript  .  with  which  they  got  clear  oti  before  the  girl,  who  had  been  decoyed  from  the  house,  was  returned.  Y•  sterdav  !notating,  as  a  gentleman  and  two  ladies  were  going  along  near  the  Asylum  in  a  single-horse  chaise,  the  horse  took  fright  at  a  baker's  harrow,  and  set  off  at  full  speed  towards  the.  Obelisk,  where,  in  turning  round,  one  of  the  ladies  was  thrown  out,  and  had  her  arm  broke.  The  horse  then  pursued  his  way  hack  tow  ants  Westminstea-bridge,  and  just  at  the  turnpike-gate,  by  a  sudden  plunge,  threw  out  the  gentleman  and  the  other  lady,  who  providentially  escaped  unhurt.  The  chaise  was  at  length  dashed  to  pieces,  and  the  animal  stopped  by  coming  in  contact  with  a  lamp-post  near  the  foot  of  the  bridge.  Sum  Inc.—On  Monday,  a  respectable  man  of  the  name  of  Legate,  a  Swiss,  put  a  period  to  his  existence  at  his  house,  in  Hackney-road.  It  appeared  before  the  Coroner,  that  Mr.  L.  had  laboured  under  dejection  of  spirits  for  some  days,  and  on  Monday  morning  his  wife  found  him  dead  on  the  bed.  He  had  suspended  himself  by  a  small  cord  fixed  to  the  bed-post,  and  he  was  found  in  a  reclining  posture,  so  that  he  must  have  been  very  resolute  in  the  commission  of  the  act.—Lunacy.  JUVENILE  DEPILE»ATO/LS.—Two  brothers,  one  14,  and  the  other  not  11  years  of  age,  were  found  concealed  a  few  nights  since  in  the  house  of  Mr.  Watts,  of  Sloane  -street,  Chelsea,  the  youngest  ii)  a  chest,  with  a  pistol  loaded  with  powder  at  his  side  and  with  some  money  that  had  been  taken  from  the  clothes  of  Mr.  Watts  ;  the  eldest  brother  was  taken  in  another  part  of  the  house,  with  money  upon  him  to  the  amount  of  231.  They  were  conveyed  to  Hanstown  watch-house,  to  be  taken  to  Queen's Queen'ssquare  square Queen'ssquare  Ot!ice;  but  before  morning  the  eldest  worked  his  way  out  through  the  roof  of  the  watch-house,  and  made  his  escape;  he  is  supposed  to  be  gone  to  sea.  The  youngest  has  been  fre frequently  quently frequently  examined  at  the  Office,  but  in  consideration  of  his  age  no  prosecution  has  been  instituted,  and  he  has  been  sent  to  the  Marine  Society.  Jane  Pvgot,  of  East  Butterwick,  near  Kirton  Lindsey,  a  poor  woman,  wife  to  a  labourer,  attempted  to  drown  herself  and  her  two  children  in  a  ditch.  The  younger  was  a  year  old,  the  other  three  years.  She  forced  them  and  herself  into  the  water,  and  one  of  the  children  was  drowned.  The  mother  and  the  other  child  were  taken  out  speechless,  but  recovered.  The  coroner's  jury  summoned  on  the  occasimi  found  a  verdict  of  wil wilful  ful wilful  murder  against  the  mother,  and  she  is  committed  to  Liucoln Liucolncastle.  castle. Liucolncastle.  The  poor  woman  is  supposed  to  he  insane."
