text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER?  necessity  of  departing  it;  disguise.  By  the  appointment  of  Sir  •  J.  Moore  to  his  present  command,  Ministers  have  fully  acknow acknowledged  ledged acknowledged  themselves  thp  sole  authors  of  that  unparalleled  expedi-  •  tiao-  7  -a  laming  monument  of  their  virar  and  foresight  !  It  ap appears,  pears, appears,  that  Government  had  formed  resolution  of  aiding  the  cause  of  the  Snuish  Patriot;,  but  in  what  manner  remains  at  present  unknown.  Ministers  seem  to  have  bad  no  correct  infor information  mation information  upon  the  internal  resources  of  Spain,  and  have  been  misled  and  confounCled  upon  various  occasions:  Their  measures  wavered  aceording  to  the  news  of  the  moment,  The  improper  policy  which  led  to  the  attack  nrin  Portugal  instradof  Spain,  and  the  conse consecum  cum consecum  Convention,  are  the  chief  ceases  of  the  enemy  being  at•  pre present  sent present  in  possession  of  :11adrid,  and  a  great  part  of  the  national  re reaources,.and  aources,.and reaources,.and  of  a  great  proportion  of  his  army  in  the  presence  Of  your  troops.  We';tre  now;  for  the  first  time,  told,  that  his  Ma Majesty  jesty Majesty  has  formally  disapproved  of  some  of  the  terms  of  the  Con Convention  vention Convention  concluded  ia  Portugal,  hut  ,what  parts  we  are  not  in informed.  formed. informed.  The  Commander  in  Chief  has  assigned  very  mysterious  reasons  for  granting  terms  so  favourable  to  the  enemy,  and  they  are,  the  bad  equipment  of  his  army,  and  want  of  heavy  artillery  and  cavalry.  The  second  re4min  the  depends  assign  for  con-  4  eluding  and  approving  the  convgntion,  is  time,  to  enable  the  British  army  to  join  the  Spaniar4,  and  pursue  the  main  object  of  the  scar;  yet,  the  English  troops  Were  not  ena enabled  bled enabled  to  leave  rorlngal  for  two  months  after,  and  then  they  were  compelled  to  traverse  the  whole  ground  on  font,  whilst  the  enemy  had  the  u-e  of  our  transports  to  con convey  vey convey  them  to  ,France,  w  hence  they  were  enabled  t STYLE=superscript  to  reach  'Spain  in  less  time,  and  less  fatigued  than  our  own  troops.  ID  the  beginninz  of  Jitly  last,  the  translation  of  a  paper  was  circulated  thvough  this  comitry,  purporting  to  have  bien  pub published  lished published  by  the  Supreiir  Junta  of  Spain,  and  entitled  Precau 'Precautions.'  Of  'these  prerautiOns  mit*  Government  Qeem  in  have  taken  ,  no  notice.  ''  hateVer  plan  §pain  adopts  for  it  own  deftnce,  ought  to  he  persevered  in,  and  not  changed  upon  every  occasion.  'the  grounds  upon  Sy  hich  Government  refused  to  annul  the  Orders  in  Council,  in  favour  of  Atnerica,  are  somewhat  exiraprdinary.  The  HOD.  Secretary,  in  one  of  hie  letters,  says,  that  the  Orders  in  Council  will  be  persevered  in  till  all  nationS  shall  be  convinced  of  its  inutility,  and  that  it  shall  have  'falku  into  harmless  and  contemptible  fragments.  This  resolution  t  think  very  'impro 'improper  per 'improper  and  unnecessary,  and  that  a  fair  opportunity  of  leveeing  . STYLE=superscript  the  !umber  or  our  enemies  ought  never  to  be  suffered  to  escape.  6mi:illy  for  a  reason  of  so  little  consequence.  It  is  not  my  Inteotinu  Ift  move  any  Amendment  upon  th..  present  Address,  but  Opoo  future  occasions  I  shall  take  an  opportunity  of  taking  the  sense  of  the  lloisenpon  the  Convention,  the  affairs  of  Spain  tied  our  relviou  with  the  United  States  or  America.  Lord  CA  sT  LEA  EA  The  first  instance  of  want  of  vigour  aseribcd  to  'linisters  was,  their  :ending  a  fleet  with  a  military  force  Into  the  Baltic  in  the  spring,  which  was  not  called  into  employment,  As  far  as  respected  our  fleet,  our  interference  was  extremely  opportune;  for  the  Marquis  ac  Romana,  who  was  then  oil'the  shores  of  the  Baltic,  has  declared,  that  at  the  very  time  top-  acet  appeared,  the  French  w  erc  about  to  take  pdsse,liqn  of  Zealand,  and  frpri  thence  pa.s  over  into  Scania.  but  that  they  were  prevented  from  thus  ;tic:eking  the  tiii•Neden  by  the  arrival  of  our  feet,  What  the  circumstances  ere  which  prevented  our  force  froM  twin::  called  into  action,  .ainisters  would  have  po  hesitation  to  explain  at  a  proper  pe per.od.  r.od. per.od.  The  Hight  4iop.  Gent.  had  said,  that  there  iv  is  a  great  crsi4ht  in  nor STYLE=superscript  providing  the  Portugal  expedition  w  it  h  '  cavalry.  Cavalry  could  not  be  carried  about  w  ith  a  I!oating  ex expedition,  pedition, expedition,  de,tisicd  to  act  according  to  dream:lances.  His  Nia-  Jesty's  Answer  to  the  City  of  Loodini  on  the  Cintra  Convention  had  also  !wen  dwelt  upon,  as  farming  a  at  subj  - STYLE=superscript  !ct  oi  ehanze  typiost  ills  Ntrijevt7's  Miniptcrs.  I  truss,  however,  that  it  will  he  qtair,lit  for  att  the  efforts  of  Gentlemen  on  the  ote.r  side  to  persuade  the  City  of  London  that  Government  meant  or  wished  to-'ay  any;  thing  disrespectful  to  them  on  that  orcaion.  Thr  City  of  Londip  had  expressed  its  opinion:  his  Majesty  replied  ss  jth  correspOndiaz  plalnutss,  and  I  trust  that  nothing  that  necaiipti  could  tend  to  shake  the  respect  of  the  City  of  Lando:ll(v  WS:l6.lOly  'Or  their  confidence  to  his  Majesty's  ••  •  Ministers.  gr.  Secretary  CA  NVIVC...'&#34;.  4 STYLE=superscript  ,  I  have  no  hesitation  to  admit  Sir,  with  the  .1:  Gentlemen  opposite,'  that  the  present  is  IN  hum  phrtont  tacknowledge  also,  that  in  yahoo  suh suhjilts  jilts suhjilts  eann:•ct  , STYLE=superscript  .:d'iiith  his  Majesty's  Speech  there  is  much  ma:ter  for  matter  consideration`.  'the  Rt.  lion.  Gentleman  accuse:  us  of  having  acted  ,  as  if  whatever  was  done  hastily  was  done  y  Ong.  The  facts,  he  tells  us,  tie  has  derived  from  the  newspapers  ;  tie  ought,  Si?s,  to  have  told  Us  more  ;  be  ought  to  have  told  st  , STYLE=superscript  ;4;11.  he  40  his  Arguments  thefe  41:0,  (A  laugh).  With  res.  JAN.  92.  pect  to  his  facts,  Sir,  I  know  not  ,where  he  may  have  got  them  ;  but  his  arguments,  I  am  sure  are  such  .as  I  have  seen  repeatedly  lately  in.  those  vehicles  of  infortnnt  inn  he  alludes  to.  The  moment  it  was  known  in  this  country  that  the  Supreme  Junta  was  established,  Gen.  Baird's  array  was  ordered  out,  and  deputations  sent  to  the  new  Government  to  order  proper  ac accommodation,  commodation, accommodation,  for  the  receptiou  of  our  army  at  Corunna.  It  arrived  at  Corunna  before  the  necessary  ,preparations  had  bee  4  made  to  receive  them,  and  before  the  orders  for  that  purpose  .  had  beep  received  from  the  Supreme  Junta.  This  accounts  for  the  delay  of  the  debarkation,  of  which  so  much  has  been  un unnecessarily  necessarily unnecessarily  said.  With  respect  to  the  delay  of  the  sailing  of  this  armament,  his  Majesty's  Ministers  were  equally  less.  Every  document  on  this  subject  will  be  freely  laid  be before  fore before  the  House,  and  I.  cannot  help  looking  forward  with  plea pleasure  sure pleasure  to  the  period,  when  his  Majesty's  Government  will  have  it  in  its  parser  completely  to  clear  itself.  The  Gentlemen  opposite  have  also  said  much  respecting  the  propriety  of  sending  our  first  armataent  to  Portugal.  From  all  the  militaryopinions  of  any  consequence,  I  um  convinced  that  Horogal  was  the  most  eligi eligible  ble eligible  point  to  tt  Welt  that  armiment  could  be  seat.  Cqnsidering  Por  t  tugal  as  formiog  part  of  the  same  Peninsula  with  Spaith,-  7  thetirsc  necessary  step  was,  to  drive  the  Freuch  from  Portugal,  in  order  to  preserve  the  contineitv  mid  to  keep  up  a  connection  tied  cons-.  munleation  with  the  North  of  Spain.  One  of  the  precautions  which  the  Right  Hon.  Gentleman  says  we  ought  to  have  taken  was  to  have  got  ppsses;ion  ofstune  town,  that  might  have  served  . STYLE=superscript  as  a  depot  and  a  rallying  point,  in  case  of  necessity.  Lisbon  is  exactly  place  of  this  description,  and  therefore,  way,  au  ob object  ject object  highly  deserving  of  being  secured,  and  where  ;  at  this  tno  3  meat  our  troops  live  on  the  must  amicable  terms  with  the  inhas  hitants.  But  the  Bight  lion.  Gentleman  is  alsq  ogeected•that  his  Majesty's  Government  should  enter  into  any  formal  treaty  with  the  Government  of  Spairi.  It  was  generally  understood  before  the  close  of  the  last  session  of  Parliament  that  his  Majesty  had  engaged  to  aid  and  support  the  Paiciots:  Will  it  he  of  no  consequence  to  Jo  , STYLE=superscript  epli  ilonaparte,  'that  we*  should  publicly  recogni*e  the  Spanish  Government,  and  treat  with  it  accordingly  t  The  Right  lion.  secretary  then  adverted;  with  his  usual'ability,  to  the  remarks  that  had  fallen  from  the  ..  other  side  of  the  House  respecting  America.  The  dispute  was,  whether  -  the  French,  in  .their  Berlin  Decree,  were  the  aggressors,  or  this  country  in  their  blockade  of  the  Conti.  tient,  from  the  Elbe  so  the  Weser,  a  blockade  which  the  say  was  against  the  common  usages  of  war,  as  it  was  not  sustained  by  a  legitimate  force,  and  therefore,  warranted  their  Berlin  Decree  as  a  measure  of  retaliation  st  wbereaS  we  said  it  wee STYLE=superscript  tamed  by  a  legitimate  Nrce  equal  to  the  extentofblockade.  Awe%  rica  had  Maintained  that  she  had  not  had  time  to  apply  to  France  for  redress.  We  gave  notice  to  her  Ambassador  in  London,  and  in  a  week  after,  in  the  beginning  of  January,  4410  toe  Orders  of  Council.  It  was  matter  of  notorious  fort,  however,  he  maintained,  that  the  American  Embargo  was  not  the  consequence  of  the  Orders  of  Council,  which  were  not  loown  in  America  when  the  embargo  was  laid  on.  HA  observed  farther,  that  at  the  moment  America  was  making  the  propositioss  alluded  to  this  country,  she  admitted  French  ships  of  war  into  her  ports,  a  privilege  she  persistNl  in  denying  to  Had  this  Government  acceded  to  her  propositiowz,  therefore,  our  merchantmen  would  have  heeu  obliged  to  trade  in.her  ports  without  the  protection  of  British  convos,  and  exposed  to  be  captured  by  the.  French  ships  of  war,  •  The  American  coast  would  in  this  .Case  have  become  rt  vest  of  privateers,  and  have  prevented  any  beneficial  ee(mlts  to  this  country  from  its  concessions..  The  French  and  wA  were  nnt  on  an  equal  footing  with  America,.  Let  her  exclude  the  ships  of  war  of  both  itowert  equally  from  her  ports,and  then  this  country  might  treat  with  her  on  honourable  terms;  but,  in  the  present  circumstances,  he  could  not.  consider  her  as  a  fair  and•  impartial  Neutral  Power.  With  respect  to  the  silence  of  his  Majesty's  Speech  respecting  our  relations  with  Turkey,  he  had  •  to  acquaint  the  I  ouse  that  Government  had  not  beard  from  Mr.  Adair,  our  late  M  inister  in  that  quarter,  since  he  left  Malta  the  beginning_of  44-!l  , STYLE=superscript  tember  last.  With  respect  to  Sweden;  it  was  tveil  understood  by  that  Government,  hat  whatever  arrange arrangemeuts  meuts arrangemeuts  it  could  make  advantageous  to  itself  with  its  too  powerful  neighbour6,  woull.be  satisfactory  to  this,  country,  and  delicacy  alone  during  the  last  Session  of  Parliamentprevented  this  public  avowal.  W  ith  respect  to  the  Potieetition  of  Ciutra,  lie  *observed.,  that  the  Gentlemen  opposite  addressed  those  on  his  side  of  the  House  as  persons  bound  to  justify  that  transaction.  This,  how,  •  ever,  was  not  the  case,  told  .he  considered  himself  at  liberty  to  entertain  the  same  opinions  on  that  subject  us  the  Right  Hon.  •  Gentleman.  Government,  it  wasaraz,  had  had  the  difficult  pick  co  act,  ot  shading  between  the.  resentment  of  the  vublic  aall  •  •  ,  .  •"
