text
"APRIL  25.-  Lord  Liverpool,  in  replying,  used  malty  .of  theaegutueitsttl theaegutueitsttliready  iready theaegutueitsttliready  'so  - STYLE=superscript  familiar  to  those  who  have  heard  the  grounds  upon.  which  his  Majesty's  Ministers  defend  their  measures  with  regard  to  Spain.  With  respect  to  the  intimation  of  blame  to  their  conduct  in  not  waiting,  On.  result  of  the  enthusiasm  of  the  Spa-  ,  nish  people,  excited  by  the  aggressions  of  the  enemy,  he  said  that,  if  thdt.  enthusiasm  had  been  suffered,  even  it'  it  was  hot  artial,  to  experience  the  tardy  support  of  England,  his  Ma Majesty's  jesty's Majesty's  Ministers  would  indeed  have  deserved  the  reprobation  of  every  man  in  the  country.  The  Noble  lord  having,  in  a  most  eloquent  and  luminous  speech,  combated  all  the  points  of  Lord  motion,  and  contrasted  the  documents  ith  his  assertions,  made  a  powerful  appeal  to  the  Sense  Of  the  House,  and  augured  from  their  decision  a  complete  exculpation  of  his  Majesty's  Go Government  vernment Government  from  any  share  °filial  blame  so  directly  imputed  to  their  conduct  with  - STYLE=superscript  respect  to  Spanish  affairs.  Lord  Moira  took  an  extended  view  of  the  campaign  from  its  origin,  and  contended  that  Ministers  had  acted  without  any  fixed  plan,  and  witlniut  cooeert  with  Spain.  Vie).  had  neglect neglectel  el neglectel  the  proper  moment  of  sending  troops  to  Spain,  and  when  they  did  snd  them,  had  established  no  plan  of  operations  with  the  Spanish  armies,  Ministers  ought  to  have  calculated  when  it  was  likely  that  additional  French  (loops  would  join  thorn!  in  the  Ebru.  The  direct  course  certainly  would  have  been  to  have  sent  our  troops  there.  The  difficulty  our  troops  experienced  in  effecting  their  junction,  might  have  been  seen,  and  ought  to  have  been  prevented.  The  Noble  .Secretary  had  talked  much  of  the  energy  of  the  Spaniards,  but  that  General  who  had  been  on  the  spot,  and  who  laboured  under  so  many  difficulties  from  this  very  cause,  had  stated  their  disunion  and  general  want  of  attachment  to  the  cause.  Mr.  Frere  was  not  the  person  who  ought  to  have  been  sent  - STYLE=superscript  to  Spain,  considering  w  hat  had  taken  place  before•with  respect  to  that  Gentleman  in  that  ccaintry.  Lord  Sidomoth  could  not  kelp  saying,  that,  in  his  mind,  the  arguments  'of  the  Noble  Earl  who  introduced  this  motion  had  the  decided  preponderance.  The  Noble  Lord  then  proceed proceeded  ed proceeded  to  make  some  observations  on  the  letters  from  Mr.  Frere  to  Sir.J.  Moore,  stating  it  as  his  opinion  from  these  letters,  that  whatever  might  be  the  zeal  of  Mr.  Frere,  he  ought  to  be  recalled  from  the  situation  which  he  now  theld,  particularly  83  his  in interefertoce  terefertoce interefertoce  was  in'part  to  be  ascribed  the  painful  disasters  which  our  arony..had  experienced.  The  !louse  then  divided  on  Earl  Orey's  motiap.  The  numbers  were-r  Non-contents  present,  33.  Proxie,  62.  I  Contents  pre present,  sent, present,  50.  •Proxies,  42.  I  Majority  ,for  Ministers  present,  33.  Proxies,  20.  Adjoitrotpdat  Seven  o'Clock  in  the  Morning,  ,  11  1 STYLE=superscript  1  '  HOUSE  OF  CQ.NO:IONS.  •  •  Mondaiy,  4pril  The  Mill  fVt.r  building  a  Bridge  across  the  Thttices  front  111?  Savoy  to  thlL'oftpo;ite  shore,  was  read  a  second  litne  k  ria4  order=  ed  to  he'  committed.  ABUSES  OF  tATRAIIMAGE.  Lord  Fo  t.ttv  - STYLE=superscript  roN  r  said,  he  ishould  trouble  the  litatti  very,  hviea  befire  he  submitted  his  motion  for  their  consideration.  I-4n  ninny  no  ways  connected  with  railitaryinttronage,  abuses  extending  t  4  the  church  and  all  the  departments  of  the  t.tate,  had  been  disclose()  in  tile  minutes  of  evidenceliid  before  the  House  on  the  charges  against  his  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  York,  that  he  thought  it  impossible  for  the  House  not  to  gO  into  some  Ptirther.  inquiry,  and  to  endeavour  to  'nice  how  much  farther  those`  abtises  extended,  as  well  with  a  view  to  punish  those  who  were  the  anchors  of  them,  as  to  prevent  a  recurrence  of  them  in  future.  The  abuses  in  the  patronage  of  the  East  India  Comp  :ply,  which  had  been  so  recently  Iliade  public,  af afforded  forded afforded  a  strong  ground  for  suspicion  that  there-  existed  many  other  corrupt  and  criminal  transactions  of  a  t;milar  nature,  which  it  was  the  duty  of  the  Mouse  to  inquire  itao,  in  order  that  they  might  adopt  proper  measures  to  put  a  stop  to  them  for  the  future.  He  concluded  with  moving;  That  a  Seleg  Com Committee  mittee Committee  he  appointed  to  inquire  into  corrupt  practices  and  abuses  With  regard  Wieners  of  Service  for  raising  men,  and  in  the  dis disposal  posal disposal  of  C  issions  in  the  Army  ;  and  also  to  -inquire  into  corrupt  practices  and  abuses  with  regard  to  the  disposal  of  Of Offixes  fixes Offixes  in  the  State,  nud  to  report  the  sane  to  the  House,  from  time  to  time,  ai  ibex  may  think  The  Crt.t!vcEt  t.OR  of  the  EXCACQUER  said,  he  felt  himself  obliged  to,  oppose  the  mot  ioa,,  because  he  conceived  it  unneces unnecessary.  sary. unnecessary.  lie  was  not.  prepared  to  say  that  some  abuses  did  not  exist,  but  its  ,  his  judipsent  s  l  i  ke.eXideleC  pfa  which  thowitibpeS"
