text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  theirs.  An  alteration  had  been  procured  in  the  original  levy,  by  Mrs.  Clarke's  influence,  for  which  she  was  to  receive  500  f.  and  a  guinea  per  man  on  each  recruit  raised.  He  acknowledged  accept accepting  ing accepting  the  draft  for  1200/.  drawn  in  favour  of  Mr.  Corri,  which  was  placed  to  the  levy  account.  He  was  told  Mrs.  Clarke  got  litany  sums  on  the  levy  account,  to  the  amount  of  1700/.  lle  had  never  heard  that  Mrs.  Clarke  had  oli,•a  ppointed  the  expectations  of  Col.  French  and  Cnptain  11.  S:tnden  as  to  other  applications,  nor  did  he  know  of  other  applications  to  her.  The  House  was  resumed;  and  the  minutes  of  the  Committee  were  brought  up,  and  ordered  to  be  printed.  Ordered,  that  the  House  should  resolve  itself  into►  the  Fain!  , STYLE=superscript  COMMittce  on  Thursday  next  ;  and  t  he  witnesses  for  that  day  were  ordered  to  attend  the  House.—Adjourned.  FEB.  12.  and  has  the  witness  ever  promised  to  pay  any  of  these  sums  of  money  to  him  ?  A.  At  a  time  when  my  carriage  was  taken  in  execution,  and  on  the  point  of  being  thereby  prevented  from  going  down  to  -Weymouth,  whither  1  was  to  have  gone  at  the  instance  of  the  Duke,  I  wrote  to  Mr.  Dowler,  telling  him  of  my  situation,  and  requesting  he  would  buy  or  procure  me  a  carriage,  and  that  the  Duke  would  repay  him.  Mr.  Dowler  accordngly  brought  me  a  carriage,  and  I  told  the  Duke  the  whole  of  it  ;  which  he  I  must  recollect  him  some  way  or  (repeated.)  Who  were  the  men  in  company  that  evening  ?  Was  his  name  Mac  Cullum  ?  A.  'Nutt  was  Ilk  name.---Q.  Does  the  witness  recollect  in  what  sums  she  received  the  1,000/.  from  Mr.  Dowler  for  his  appointment  to  the  CO4P CO4Pmissariat  missariat CO4Pmissariat  ?  A.  1.  received  first  200/.  an:l  afierwards;:iCo%  •  •  Interrogated  by  Lord  FOLKSTON  E.---Q.  How  long  have  you  been  acquainted  with  the  Duke  of  York  ?  A.  I  t  was  about  ISO  3  when  he  first  took  me  under  his  protection.---Q.  Had  you  au  eaablishment  from  that  period  ?  A.  No.  It  was  between  15Ot  and  1806  that  I  had  the  establishment  in  Gloocester-place.---Q.  What  allowance  did  the  Duke  make  for  supporting  that  establish establishment  ment establishment  ?  A.  He  allowed  me  a  thousand  a-year,  to  he  paid  monthly,  but  the  payments  were  not  always  Made  good.--Q.  Was  the  allow  -  ;wee  made  by  his  Royal  Highness  adequate  to  pay  the  establish establishment  ment establishment  in  Gloucester-place  ?  A.  No,  and  l  frequently  stated  to  his  Royal  Highness  that  it  would  not  pay  more  than  the  !;erv%nts.---  He  told  me,  if  I  understood  matters  properly,  I  would  never  ask  him  for  money.--A)o  you  recollect  the  first  time  you  applied  to  the  Duke  of  York  for  any  promotion  or  counnissiou  ?  A.  I  do  not-recollect  ;  but  it  was  not  till  after  I  removed  to  Gloucesterlflace.--Q.  Did  the  witness  inform  his  Royal  Highness  of  every  application  made  to  her  ?  A.  1  did,  and  they  never  were  rejected  but  through  his  means.---Q.  Did  the  witness  trust  to  her  memory  with  respect  to  these  applica applications,  tions, applications,  or  record  theM  in  writing?  A.  When  single  I  trusted  merely  to  memory  ;  if  on  'paper,  I  gave  his  Royal  Highness  the  paper.---Q.  What  paper  does  the  witness  mean  to  say  she  gave  to  his  Royal  Highness?  A.  Any  paper  that  was  handed  to  me  on  the  subject  of  the  appointment  desired.--Q.  Did  the  witness  ever  give  his  Royal  Highness  a  list  of  applications  ?  A.  1  recol recollect  lect recollect  once  of  banding  him  such  a  When  did  this  list  exist  ?  A.  I  do  not  recollect  exactly,  but  it  must  have  been  before  Capt:  Tucker  was  made  Major.--Q.  What  reason  had  the  witness  for  supposing  so  ?  A.  Because  the  Duke  observed,  w  ith  respect  to  Capt.  Tucker,  that  Greenwood  had  him;  and  the  Duke  said,  that  I  must  know  enough  of  the  nature  of  the  business  to  see  that  he  could  not  comply  with  all  the  applications  at  once,  but  must  do  it  by  degrees.  By  Sir  G.  IV  A  lIRA  NDER.---Q.  On  what  account  did  the  wit wit'  ' wit'  ness  receive  the  sums  of  money  the  had  mentioned  from  Mr.  Dowler  ?  A.  To  procure  his  appointment.---Q.  By  whom  was  the  notification  of  this  appointment  made  to  the  witness  ?  A.  By  his  Royal  Highness,  who  said  he  had  spoken  to  Mr.  Long,  and  it  was  all  settled  at  last.  Mr.  Manley,  he  said,  had  been  recom recommended  mended recommended  by  the  Prince  of  Wales,  and  he  could  have  wi,hed  to  have  obliged  him;  but  he  must  be  provided  for  some  other  way.  Mr.  Dowler  had  made  out  a  list  of  seventeen  voters,  of  whom  Lord  .lohn  Campbell  was  one,  from  Scotland,  who  were  to  ap appear  pear appear  in  support  of  the  Defence  Bill.  I  had  several  members,  friends,  but  Mr.  Dowler  could  not  bring  them  up  ;  they  were  in  opposition---(a  laugh.)  This,  his  Royal  Highness  said,  he  had  given  to  Mr.  Charles  Long,  who  was  quite  delighted  with  it.  Q.  By  Lord  FoI.ICSTON  E.—His  Royal  Highness  was  an  are  then  of  the  offers  of  money  that  were  made  her?  A.  Ilk  Royal  Highness  was  aware  of  every  thing  t  did  relative  to  that  sub subject  ject subject  ;  I  was  not  delicate  in  mentioning  it.  By  Sir  JA  MES  How  did  the  witness  know  that  the  note  was  taken  out  to  be  changed  by  the  Duke  of  York's.ser York's.servant,  vant, York's.servant,  and  not  by  one  of  her  own  ?--The  witness  here  stated  that  she  had  never  said  positively  that  it  was  one  of  the  Duke's  own  servants  who  got  the  change,  she  had  only  believed  so.  On  the  the  evening  before  they  went  to  the  country,  they  had  bent  out  Pearson,  the  Butler,  to  get  change  of  the  note,  who  without  success,  when  the  Duke  desired  him  to  go  to  his  wine  merchant's  in  Bond-street,  and  tell  from  w  hom  it  came.  Q.  By  Sir  T.  TtraroN.—ln  what  character  did  the  witness  represent  Mr.  Dowler  to  his  Roval  Highness?  1  represented  him  as  a  friend.—Q.  Did  she  mention  any  sum  to  his  Royal  Highness  she  was  to  receive  from  Mr.  Dow  ler  ;  and  what  sum  did  she  mention  ?  A.-  His  Royal  Highness  ftnew  I  was  to  have  a  sum  of  money  from  Did  you  never  receive  an anof;ier  of;ier anof;ier  it  of  applications,  besides  the  long  one  you  have  menti mentioned,  oned, mentioned,  from  any  other  quarter?  A.  I  never  received  so  long  a  list  ;  never  more  than  two  or  three  applications  at  atime.  I  generally  planed  it  up  at  the  head  -of  the  bed  )  and  his  Royal"
