text
"15A  •  110  W  far  Commercial  Pair(tire  may  be  beneficial  tb  the  Arts,  is  a  outstion  dot  tieeided.  It  may  with  cer certainty  tainty certainty  be  asserted,  that  the  artist  win)  looks  forward  to  p2euniary  reN;  lad  Alone  will  nes  er  attain  excellence..  The  great  intOtersi  ‘vhose  names  are  Irked  up  to  with  reve revercuce,  rcuce, revercuce,  knew  nut  what  it  was  to  bargain  with  a  purchaser  14  the  remuneration  of  their  labours.  Honour  was  their  •ohject.  With  that  degree  of  competency  which  enabled  Men'  to  11‘  , STYLE=superscript  C  1  they  wrought  with  perseverance  unextin unextinguishable,  guishable, unextinguishable,  and  tnaeavoured  to  render  their  lives  distin distinguished  guished distinguished  and  illustrious;  not  opulent  and  luxuriou3.  A  different  principle  unavoidably  arise  among  a  .  free  and  commercial  people.  Where  rank  may  be  obtained  by  per personal  sonal personal  exertion,  and  where  wealth  is  the  great  mechanic  power  by  which  those  exertions  produce  their  effect,  it  :will  not  be  forprizing  that  the  first  object  of  almost  c'  cry  votary  of  11.!e  arts  should  be  found  to  be  pecuniary  emolu-  Meta.  To  be  sure  no  artist  can  expect  by  the  mere  sale  .of  his  laborious  productions  to  arrive  at  any  considerable  de degree  gree degree  of  riches  in  comparison  with  the  inercluint  or  the  trading  agricuiturist  ;  but  when  he  finds  a  regidar  mart  open  for  the  fruits  of  his  toil,  he  must  necess,irily  he  iden identified  tified identified  with  other  speculators  in  hard  cash,  and  will  soon  learn  the  art  \of  estimating  The  worth  of  any  thing  By  the  mere  money  it  will  •  tXcellent  as  the  plan  of  the  But  rise  INSTITUTION  apphars,  (and  1  fear  that  it  is  the  best  plan  we  can  expect  from  the  fregociuting  patronage  whit:h  the  poor  arts  will  ever  obtain  this  country)—)et—((  would  repress  the  idea  if  1  could)  --yet;  1  ant  persuaded  that  it  will  tend  to  encourage  false  ,  taste  ;—to  encourage  endeavours  to  please,  not  to  excel,  —  to  excite  those  competitions  tor  price  and  not  for  fame,  'which  must;  necessarily,  render  the  arts  despicable,  and  sink  the  thia  ;;Fuithitts  Hob  the  mercenary  speculator.  la  the  list  of  Subscribers  to  this  Institution,  I  observe  the  names  of  many  of  our  nobility  distinguished  by  capital  lefters,  and  prtAixect  to  the  sum  of  one  hundred  guineas  eat  h.  This  sounds  Magnificently,  anti  makes  indeed  a  very  tapitol  appearance:  But;  alas,  painters  are  not  made  by  subscription;—the  family  of  Jlederi—and  what  is  the  family  of  the  MiarriA  iu  comparison  with  many  of  those  iiriti;h  families  Ivhich  are  seen  in  this  list?—The  family  of  the  .iledecisilni  not  cent  Mlle  themselves  with  a  company  of  coadjutors  %shot  they  intended  iv  raise  the  arts  of  their  ctnintry  to  the  highest  pitch  Of  excellence.  No—person No—personally—individually—they  ally—individually—they No—personally—individually—they  patronized  each  selected  artist— artistand  and artistand  rendered  their  country,  in  I  hat  departMent  of  Genius,  the  wonder—the  eternd  admiration  of  the  world  I  But  if  is  time  to  turn  from  this  critique  on  the  Institution  itself,  and  to  select  from  those  specimens  of  its  utility,  biell  it  offers  to  public  examination,  such  Aubjects  as  we  May  with  impartiality  either  approve  or  condemn:  •  The  Myra  of  Nra.soN,  by  .1.  11.  ig  among  the  first  that  claims  our  attention.  The  subject  can  never  lose  its  interest  in  the  British  bosom.  In  every  point  of  view  in  which  such  an  occurrence  is  capable  of  being  e?Aibited,  it  must  rivet  our  regard,  and  in  some  respects  stifle  the  ardour  of  criticism  by  more  acutc,,,,ontl  more  endeared  sensations.  .11r.  bevis  has  chosen  the  moment  in  which  our  national  hero  expired  ill  Ike  cock-pit  of  the  Victory.  The  place  is  not  favourable  for  effect  :  nor  hai  the  artist  beeii  able  to  overcome  the  disadvantages  of  position  to  Which  he  was  thus  condemned.  Perhaps  he  fancied  that  b  e  ga  ined  some  depth  in  the  scene  by  placing  enormous  figures  in  the  front,  and  decreasing  . STYLE=superscript  the  natural  size  of  the  figure=  io  the  hark  ground.  lie  has  thereby  injured  his  picture  in  the  most  material  point.  He  has  made  the  prin principal  cipal principal  fi  g  guru,  even  allowing  for  the  fore  -shortening  in  the  tecumhent  position,  much  too  small.  The  surrounding  group  possesses  liknesses  undoubtedly  ;  but  they  have  not  any  expression.  Every  countenance  lotAs  as  if-  it  was  selling  (rather  paimtvlly  perhaps)  4efore  the  eisel  of  Mr.  P14_TB00004 '-~;  4-  _  •t~  ~~t"
