text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  LOlOOll,  SUNDAY,  FEBRUARY  20,  1809.  among  whom  are  several  Generals  of  distinction,  some  say  BERTHIER.  Thee  accounts  also  state,  that  he  Frenets  Garrison  was  preparing  to  evacuate  Madrid,  in  the  neigh neighbourhood  bourhood neighbourhood  of  which  they  were  throwing  up  some  strong  works.  Saragossa  still  holds  out  ;  and  the  intrepid  PALAFOIL  is  reported  to  have  obtained  another  decisive  advantage  over  the  enemy,  in  which  they  lost  near  7,000  men.  A  single  trait  will  suffice  to  mark  the  sublimity  of  his  charac character.  ter. character.  (laving  been  summoned  by  the  besiegers  to  capitu capitulate,  late, capitulate,  who  told  him  that  as  all  Spain  was  in  thy  possession  of  the  French,  he  could  not  hope  to  establish  a  communim.  tion  with  and  other  country.  says  the  klero,  ran  1  capitulate  or  surrender:  talk  If  that  tam  lam  dead.  31y  communications  are  open  with  ertry  part  o  1  pain,  and  with  the  w  whole  orld  ;  and  if  they  were  cut  i  my  bayonets  would  ••  - STYLE=superscript  oon  restore  Cu  iIsTA  has  like-  Si  ise  obtained  some  advantage  over  the  enemy  ;  anti  the  Army  of  Duke  of  INIPANTADO  is  estimated  at  50,000  men.  The  accounts  from  Catalonia  arc  equally  gratifying,  Itto!  MG,  a  very  distinguished  Officer,  occupied  with  an  Army  of  .25,000  men,  highly  disciplined,  the  strong  post  of  Tap  !  ragoua,  one  of  the  most  important  in  the  province.  la  Pori  ugal  the  spirit  of  the  people  cannot  be  better.  They  call  loudly  for  Sir  ARTHUR.  WELLLSLEY  to  direct  their  mili military  tary military  ardour.  It  is  now  currently  reported,  that  Ministers  mean  ta.  adopt  a  mode  of  warfare,  with  regard  to  Spain,  more  con.  •  sistent,  it  is  said,  with  our  insular  situation,  naval  prepon preponderance,  derance, preponderance,  and  military  establishment.  This  is  to  consist  in  frequent  and  partial  descents  on  the  extensive  line  of  coast  from  Bayonne  to  Genoa.  its  expediency  and  advantages  were  frequently  recommended  by  the  great  Lord  N  ILSON  /  and  the  alarm  which  Lord  Cocii.a.vst:  - STYLE=superscript  kept  up,  sonic  time  ago  on  the  French  coast  in  the  Mediteraneith  prdves,  if  it  be  pursued  on  a  large  scale,  that  nothing  can  contribute  inure  to  harm%  and  distract  the  enemy.  By  t  h  ese  means,  the  hopes  of  the  Patriots  will  he  constantly  kept  alive;  whilst  the  invaders  will  be  tormented  and  worn  out  by  toil toilsome  some toilsome  marches.  We  have  frequently  alluded  to  its  decisive  importance,  and  have  recommended  to  that  effect  the  Ba Balearic  learic Balearic  Islands  as  the  most  convenient  depot  for  the  military  force  we  should  employ  in  that  service.  We  are  also  in informed  formed informed  that  Government  has  stipulated  with  the  Supreme  Junta,  that  our  troops  should  take  possession  of  MinOrea  ;  from  whence  We  may  threaten  the  whole  coast  of  itaiyi  .  Spain  and  the  South  of  France.  A  serious  spirit  of  discontent  has  manifested  itself  amen?:  the  French  troops.  They  are  said  to  express  the  loudest  coin.  plaints  of  the  hardships  they  arc  incessantly  exposed  to;  and'  the  declarations  of  the  prisoners  our  army  made,  coincide  with  these  accounts.  We  have  it,  in  fact,  from  ttic  most  MI.  questionable  authority,  that  the  French  soldiers  shew  the,  most  decided  repugnance  to  fight  against  the  Spaniards;  and  though  they  affect  a  great  deal  of  contempt  for  the  litary  character  of  that  nation,  they  condemn  the  iniiitiable  ambition  of  their  chieftain,  which  drags  them,  in  the.me).  inclement  season  of  the  year,  from  the  Vistula  to  the  F,bro.  They  complain  loudly  that,  after  all  the  battles  they  have.  fought,  and  the  harrassing  privations  they  have  submitted.  to,  no  respite  is  allowed  them;  and  they  see  before  thein  . STYLE=superscript  ,  only  the  dreadful  prospect  of  consuming  their  lives  in  toils;  and  dangers,  without  remuneration  or  a  prospect  of  future  tranquillity.  The  tyrant  has  already  exhausted  every  sit  and  pretext,  which  could  work  upon  the  passions,  vanity,  or  rapacity  of  his  troops.  The  conquest  of  England,  the  freedom  of  the  sea,  are  no*  too  stale,  too  remote  and  impracticable;  to  eiicenrage  them  to  perseverance  and  patience.  As  .  Icing  is,  ihese  hopes  were  held  out,  and  in  order  to  kccp  their  Map  s  of  the  City  of  'London  were  distritinted•  anion  . STYLE=superscript  the  French  regiMents,  containing  a  most  accurate  *Option,  in  a  military  point  of  view,  of  S.CVOIRI  streets  and  quarters;  and  as  a  stinitiltis  to  their  rapacity,  the  Mink,  the  India  Honse,  and  other  buildings  of  that  de deiwcrr`j~ti  iwcrr`j~ti deiwcrr`j~ti  i.  p  rtiicularly  'nuked.  Ili  the  camp  it"
