text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  4  rierity  flowed  from  our  free  constitution,  which  implanted  in  the  minds  of  every  subject  that  natural  enthusiastic  courage,  which  rendered  the  inexperienced  superior  to  the  most  skilful  of  our  eueuties.—  hey  proved,  that  meet  where  we  would,  under  advantages  or  disadvantages,  whether  in  infantry,  iu  ar artillery,  tillery, artillery,  as  was  :hewn  at  Vituiei  or  in  cavalry,  as  the  last  campaign  in  Spain  most  decidedly  evinced,  the  British  r  could  maintain  the  same  superiority  over  our  foes.  Ile  did  not  `wish  to  enter  into  a  particular  and  circumstantial  detail  of  Ike  cam campaign  paign campaign  in  kortugal,  but  it  would  be  unjust  not  to  call  the  attentiou  of  the  /louse  to  the  splendid  action  performed  on  the  17ib.  The  enemy  were  driven  from  one  of  the  strougcst  positions  that  a  bod  y  of  troops  could  occupy,  and  ail  eariwst  given  of  what  as  after afterwards  wards afterwards  realized  in  the  iriftnortal  battle  of  the  21st.  lle  wished  to  he  perfectly  understood,  in  the  Motion  he  should  have  to  submit,  not  to  intend  the  slightest  disrespect  towards  Sir  H.  littrrard.  All  the  military  merit  of  this  Campaign  was  Sir  A.  Wellesle:,'s•  He  concluded  by  moving  a  Vote  of  Thanks  to  Sir  A.  Wellesley,  and  jthe  Olfieersiand  men  under  hisleommand,  fur  the  skiil,  disci discipline,  pline, discipline,  and  bravery  displayed  on  the  17th  of  An,zust,  in  forcing  the  French  posts,  and  on  the  21st,  at  time  battle  of  V  imiera.  Mr.  SVHITUREAU,  after  having  expresFed  his  unmodified  ap approbation  probation approbation  of  the  prowess  and  gallantry  of  Sir  A.  11  gale'  lev,  nevertheless  rose  to  move  to  insert  in  the  motion,  onnottliateiy  before  the  name  of  Sir  A.  Wellesley.  that  of  Sir  H.  13rirrard.  The  CitANCCLLOR  of  the  kACkiLyilkAt  objected  decidedly  to  this  amendment.  P5_TB00015 NM  4.A"
