text
"5/3  Iroirfr  *Hi  or,  ?4,9,,  tvirtt4.  '  •  J  .•  •  •  at,froal  5!.  t  pek.t,oa,  to  make  brass  when  mixed  with  cop copier,  ier, copier,  e,tcjosi  has  been  used  for  painting.  A  censicet  t STYLE=superscript  nirtina  . STYLE=superscript  frfity  of  silver  Vain,  of  Elizabeth,  James,  attl  Ohnrles,  iva§  . STYLE=superscript  d:re%  uplast  week  on  a  farm  called  Lan,  in  ti  e  pnriSb`  rear  Anertaiitt,'  ittair  Carmarthen.  Tradition  informs  us,  thalzvia  racoon  malt  stood  on  this  spot,  during  part  of  Croat Croat'to  'to Croat'to  bitrotectOrsli  i  F  .  The  fallow  inz  is  the  most  singular  instance  of  swindlin.  vehie  . STYLE=superscript  ll  recollect  to  have  heard  of  for  some  time.  On  Satur Saturday  day Saturday  *e'imight,  a  genteel  looking  . STYLE=superscript  man  arrived  at  a  town  in  114.  cestershir-  in  a  citaise  ;  and  after  making  many  inquiries  re•  spectiag  we  inhabitants,  he  sent  a  note  to  the  Clergyman  of  the  parish,  sa  lug,  that  with  his  permiss:on,  he  would  do  the  duty  of  the  Cl  arch  on  the  following  day.—The  Clergyman  cop  senten,  and  aecordinely  the  stranger  went  through  the  variou  duties  af  the  day.  Being  in  comparrY  in  the  evening,  he  saki  that  he  whs  going  to  take  possession  of  a  living  in  Bromptoo  Brian  ;  and  onseried,  that  he  should  be  rather  short  of  money,  if  he  could  not  get  somebody  to  cash  a  check,  (which  he  pro produced),  duced), produced),  on  a  London  Banker.  A  Gentleman  present  offered  to  supply  nim  with  cash  fur  it,  vehich  he  accepted,  and  said  that  he  was  goine.  irota  the  place,  but  should  retera  on  the  follow  in  Titurzday.  In  the  mean  time  a  person  arrived  at  the  same  tow  ii  from  Bat;I,  and  said  that  he  was  in  pursuit  of  a  man  who  had  given  him  a  cheek  upon  a  London  Banker,  which  was  found  to  be  el'au  value;  and,  an  mahing  inquiry,  he  felt  convinced  the  the  strange  Clergyman  must  be  the  inan  he  sought  ;  and  an  in interview  terview interview  coneinced  hint  that  he  was  right.  The  supposed  Clef Clefgy.:nan  gy.:nan Clefgy.:nan  framed  some  plausihl  excuse  for  his  conduct,  and  satis satisfied  fied satisfied  his  pursuer  by  paying  him  the  greater  part  of  his  debt,  with  the  money  . STYLE=superscript  ,  it  is  suppo-ell  s  that  he  had  obtained  fromihe  alio;  Gentleinau.  The  item  morning  he  left  the  town,  and  no  tiding  have  since  been  heard  of  him.  lie  appeared  about  26  years  0:  age,  an,lpos,es-ed  an  ert.,aging  per3on  and  address;  it  is  most  probahie  that  ite  isnot  a  Clergyman.  On  Tuesday  se'nnight,  a  fire  broke  out  in  the  house  of  Mr.  Weathered,  bridge-street,  Berwick,  but  was  fortunately  got  under  betore  doing  an.  serious  damage—we  understand  it  was  occasioned  by  some  straw  that  had  been  put  up  the  chimney  to  prevent  we  - STYLE=superscript  soot  frau,  falling  upon  the  floor,  and  which,  no:  being  taken  out  when  the  tire  was  put  out,  fell  down  and  threat threatened  ened threatened  the  w  hole  premises  with  an  instant  conflagration.  Several  persons  lost  their  lives  one  night  last  week  in  attempt attempting  ing attempting  to  return  nonce  from  Whitby-market.  Christopher  Swal,  s.  a  biark'  milli,  at  Goatiand,  about  ten  miles  from  Whitby,  or  his  return,  called  upon  his  son  at  Sleirhts,  who  seeing  his  father  determioed  to  i;roceed  on  his  journey,  undertook  to  accompair.  him  over  the  most  difficult  part  of  the  road.  Having  travelled  a  ICW  miles,  the  old  man  grew  so  faint  that  his  son  was  under  the  necessity  of  taking  him  upon  his  hark.  After  encounterine  the  greatest  diticulties,  they  reached  the  end  of  their  journey,  but  not  hetore  the  father  had  suffered  so  severely  from  the  cold  and  fatigue,  that  he  expired  almost  immediately  on  entering  the  boteht.  1  tie  son  was  also  reduced  to  such  a  state  of  weakness  by  the  exvitions  he  had  heed  compelled  to  make,  that  his  reco recovc-v  vc-v recovc-v  was  for  some  time  doubtful.  Another  victim  to  the  seve severity  rity severity  of  the  storm,  was  a  young  worear  of  the  nag:-..  - STYLE=superscript  of  Sellers,  a  resident  in  Goatiand;  the  most  pressing  entreaties  of  her  t'.:ends  at  Whitby  could  tint  prevail  with  her  to  stay  the  ;  her  constant  reply  being,  that  it'  she  did  not  go  home.  he  . STYLE=superscript  :  mother  wohtd  conelade  that  something  had  happened  to  her.  xio  the  evening  °fine  ISte,  she  was  found  sitting  upon  the  snow  on  the  moor,  with  her  hoi  F  . STYLE=superscript  ,e  standing  h  , STYLE=superscript  .  her,  and  the  bridle  ill  her  hand,  dearly  perished  to  (Atli;  hut  on  being  taken  to  thrm-horse,  sae  soon  reeovereti.  She  must  have  been  exposeo  to  the  severe  storm  not  less  t  han  30  hours.  A  farmer  Of  Live:-  ton,  Rcithen  also  returning  from  Whitby,  lost  his  life  near  Scalii.gdam,  titan  the  incleihrocy  of  the  iveather  ;  his  body  was  fouod  a  few  days  afterwards  und,  r  the  snow  ;  th  , STYLE=superscript  people  whoniscoveced  him  nv.H...,..irawn  to  the  pot  by  otherving  a  stick  placed  upi  ight  in  the  snow,  w  hien  taeasure  it  appear appearthe  the appearthe  deceased  had  adopted  as  a  signal,  when  exhausted  nature  Lad  heel)  compelled  to  resign  the  hopeless  contest.  Two  men  have  been  found  'it)  the  'Moor,  near  Cock  Aloor-hall,  in  the  rici  , STYLE=superscript  hbourhood  of  Sc,.rhorough,  who  had  perished  in  .the  storm  . STYLE=superscript  ;a.ltirday  the  17th  ultimo.  1 STYLE=superscript  '  A  illorking  ..tfair  happened  on  Thursday  last  at  Dowghte  no,,r  Welling,  Bucks.  Fourteen  men  were  at  work  tae  v..t.,ch  is  100  feet  deep,  when  an  impending  cliffgave  ••  •  •  -  *  d  of  them,  with  two  earls  and  four  I  v  ay  •  4,1.  _one  seven  &#34;itielfb'  the  iren  were  dug  out  on  the  same  day,  tw  o  of  whom  W1TP11735!  tre.f)ri  ?  list  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  J.A.T.  15  -  IL  Ile  the  Seventh  man  was  protected  by  a  cart,  and.  is  nm  hurt.  horses.  although  not  kilted,  were  rendered  useless.  nifecting  scene  occurred  at  Southend,  Yorkshire,  abnat  six  o'clock  last  Wednesday  seennight.  During  the  violence  of  Lae  storm,  five  of  the  Humber  pilots  took  a  .wall  iroat,  with  the  intention  of  going  .aboard  their  pilot-boat,  lying  off  the  garrison.  Jupt  as  they  put  off,  a  wave  struck  the  biiat,  which  instantly  was  upset  in  the  sOit  of  a  number  of  people,  and  only  two  were  saved.  Last  week  some  persons  amusing  themselves  with  a  rifle-piece,  on  the  Salford  side  of  the  Irwdl,  a  bail  from  it  entered  the  window  of  a  house  in  Strangcways,  struck  oil  ine  head  of  a  ailit's  doll  king  aside,  and  passed  through  10  the  If-irk  yard.—  Providentially  at  the  time  the  shot  wac  hied,  the  mistress  of  the  nouse  was  stooping  to  sweep  the  hearth,  otherwise  it  must  have  proved  fatal  to  her.  Several  children  were  playing  in  the  yard  at  the  time.  The  danger  of  this  practice  has  been  becore  pointed  out,  from  similar  hazard  atn  - STYLE=superscript  iining  it.  A  very  melancholy  aer;dent  happened  a  few  (lays  ago  At  Sharperion  ford,  on  the  Coquet  River.  As  a  poor  blind  man  named  Howey,  with  his-  son,  a  lad  about  twelve  years  of  age,  ,sere  in  the  act  of  crossing  the  Ford  to  Woodhall  on  a  small  gal galloway,  loway, galloway,  ,  it  is  supposed  the  ice  coining  down  very  rapidly,  hail  .  inoeked  the  animal  over,  and  the  poor  man  being  unable  to  render  himself  or  son  any  assistance,  both  were  unfortunately  drowned.  TUESDAY'S  LONDON  GAZETTE.  Downing-street,  Jun.  10,  ISO  9.  Dispatches,  from  which  the  following  are  extracts,  were,  on  the  tith  instant,  received  at  the  office  (If  Lord  V  iLcontit  Castle Castlereagh,  reagh, Castlereagh,  one  of  his  Maje3ty's  Principal  Secretaries  of  Stale,  front  Lieutenant-General  Sir  John  Moore,  K.  B.  Commander  in  Chief  of  his  Alaje6ty's  Forces  employed  in  Spain  :  Bencrente,  Dec.  28,  1803.  Since  I  had  the  honour  to  address  you  upon  the  16th,  from  Coro,  the  Army  has  been  almost.  constantly  marching  through  snow,  and  with  cold  that  has  been  very  intense.  The  weather  within  these  few  days,  has  turned  to  rain,  which  is  much  more  .nacon►tortabie  than  the  cold,  and  has  rendered  the  roads  ahnost  impassable.  On  the  21st  the  Army  reached  Sahagun  ;  it  was  nece,,sar%  to  halt  there  in  order  to  refresh  the  men,  and  on  ae aeconnt  connt aeconnt  of  provisions.  The  information  1  received  was  that  Marshal  Soul  t  was  at  Saldana  with  about  sixteen  thousand  men,  with  posts  at  o  m;  the  river  frotn  Cuarda  to  Carrion.  The•  Army  was  ordered  to  march  in  two  columns  at  eight  o'clock  on  the  night  of  the  `3d,  to  force  the  bridge  at  Carrion,  And  from  thence  proceed  to  Saldana.  At  six  o'clock  that  even evening.,  ing., evening.,  I  received  information,  that  considerable  reinforcements  had  •arrived  at  Carrion  from  Palencia,  and  a  letter  from  the  Alartbn  is  tie  lit  Itomana  infor►ned  me,  that  the  French  were  advancing  from  Madrid,  either  to  Valladolid  or  Salamanca.  It  %vas  evident,  that  it  was  toe►  late  to  prosecute  the  attempt  upon  Soult,  that  I  must  be  salisfied  with  the  diversion  I  had  occasioned,  and  that  I  had  no  time  to  lose  to  secure  my  retreat.  .  .  The  next  morning  Lieuteamit-General  Hope,  with  his  own  Ii  vision  and  that  of  Lieu  0  oust-General  Fraser,  marched  to  Thijorga.  I  sent  Sir  David  Baird  with  his  division  to  pass  the  river  at  'Valencia,  and  followed  L.  ieut.-1  ktneral  Hope  on  t  he  251  h  ith  the  reserve  and  the  light  brigado  , STYLE=superscript  :,  by  Mljorga,  ValderaB,  Benevent  , STYLE=superscript  .  The•  cavalry,  under  Lord  Pa  ,et,  followeil  the  reserve  on  the  26th  ;  both  the  latter  corps  entered  this  place  sesterday.  We  continue  our  march  on  Astorga.  Generals  Hope  and  Fraser  are  already  gone  on  ;  Sir  David  Baird  proceeds  to tomorrow  morrow tomorrow  from  'Valencia;  and  I  shall  leave  this  with  the  reserve  it  the  same  time  ;  Lord  Paget  s  ill  remain  with  the  cavalry,  to  lye  us  notice  of  the  approach  of  the  enemy  ;  hitherto  their  tufantry  have  not  come  up,  but  they  are  near,  and  the  cavalry  is  round  us  in  great  numbers;  they  are  checked  by  our  cavalry,  which  have  obtained,  by  their  spirit  and  enterprise,  an  ascend-.  ancy  over  that  of  the  French,  which  nothing  but  great  superiority  of  numbers  an  their  part  will  get  the  better  of.  The  diversion  made  by  our  march  on  Sahagun,  though  at  great  risk  to  ourselves;  has  been  complete  ;  it  remains  to  be  seen  what  advantage  the  Spaniards  in  the  South  will  be  able  to  take  of  it  ;  but  the  march  of  the  French  on  Badajoz  was  stcpped  when  its  advanced  guard  had  reached  Talaveira  de  la  Reine,  and  every  thing  dispmable  is  now  turned  in  this  direction.  The  only  part  of  the  Army  which  has  been  hitherto  cng,a.-ed  aith  the  enemy,  has  been  Or;  cavalry,  and  it  is  ImpoiFible  tor  P6_TB00016 P6_TB00017 1  P6_TB00018 ,~  .  r"
