text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  deuce  . STYLE=superscript  in  the  present  Administration.  Ministers,  he  trusted,  would  satisfy-the  House  that  they  did  not  expect  the  disisters  which  have  happened  in  Spain,  and  that  these  disasters  did  tot  happen  from  want  of  foresight.  Lord  GRENVILLE  rose  and  stated,  that  there  were  Man\  things  in  the  Address  which  he  never  could  consent  to.  He  thought  nothing  could  now  justify  the  sending  any  more  British  troops  into  the  interior  of  Spain.  There  was  a  paper  pub pub'shed  'shed pub'shed  In  Spain.  which  in  the  beginning,  signified  both  well  and  wisely  the  species  of  warfare  that  ought  to  be  carried  on  there  as  most  effective  against  French  usurpation.  They  should  reflect,  that  they  are  about  to  send  40,000  to  contend  with  '600,000.  If  they  intend  to  give  important  aid  to  the  Spnniards,  it-  must  be  by  other  expeditions.  We  should  have  applied  the  aid  of  this  Country,  when  the  enemy,  in  a  state  of  sullen  inert inertness,  ness, inertness,  was  encamped  on  the  banks  of  the  Ebro.  Two  months  elapsed  after  the  victory  of  Vimiera,  before  a  single  soldier  Leaves  •  Portugal  for  Spain  ;  and  two  months  more  pass  awe\  before  a  single  British  musket  is  fired  at  the  enemy.  They  ar arrive  rive arrive  as  the  armies  of  Spain  are  overthrown,  her  provinces  over overrun,ther  run,ther overrun,ther  Nobles  murdered,  and  the  tyrant  triumphs.  As  to  the  Armistice  and  Convention,  the  sense  of  the  country  was  so  round roundly  ly roundly  expressed  upon  these  topics,  that  all  he  could  say  respecting  them,.  would  be  but  echoing  the  indignant  sentiment  of  the  whole  nation  ;  all  he  would  add  to  these  expressions  was,  that  ir  Ministersintended  to  meet  the  enemy  in  the  plains  of  Portugal  they  should.  have  sent  out  cavalry  ;  and  if  they  intended  that  we  should  attack  them  in  theirfortifications  '  they  should  have  sent  out  artillery.  „But  they  did  neither  ;  nor  had  our  troops  a  Com Commissariat  missariat Commissariat  even  to  support  them  on  the  sea  coast.  The  decision,  therefore,  'of  the  Board  of  Enquiry  was  right.  But  hew,  11,•  would  ask,:  does  that  correspond  with  the  sentiments  of  disap-  probation-expressed  in•the  Speech,  of  the  terms  of  part  of  that  Convention?  How  does  the  blame  cast  there  accord  with  the  answerfsoin  the  Throne,  that  '  sit  is  not  according  to  the  spirit  of  Britistjustice  to  condemn  withoutsa  Yet  the  very  termsof  the  Speech  condemned,  and  no  hearing,  tto  trial  of  the  parties  was  had..  Therefore,  it  was  not  the  Generals,  but  Minis Ministers  ters Ministers  dust  Were  to  he  blamed.  His  Lordship  then  adverted  to  Ametioa.  s-He  signified  in  strong  terms  his  astonishment  that  Ministers  pursued  such  crooked  policy  towards  that  country;  His  Lordship  noticed  a  difference  between  the  language  of  Ministers  in  the  Declaration,  and  that  used  in  the  Speech,  respecting  the.  proposals  from  Brfurth;  and  concluded  with  observing,  that•  if  we-seam  best  officers  and  our  best  troops  to.  Spain;  the  country  would  be  lost.  We  could  not  recruit  from  consertption  ;  and,  like  Austria  and  Prussia,  this  Empire  would  be  untioneby  such  dangerous  and  hazardous  enterprises.  The  .Earl  of  Memo°  1,  then  rose  and  followed  the  Noble  Baron  thiti.ogh  the•whole  of  his  exposition.  He  observed  that  if  .it  was  wise  and  politic-  io  .  enter  into  the  glorious  cause  of  bpanistudelivereece,  , STYLE=superscript  it  would  bennwise  and  impolitic  to  feel  appalled  at  the  particular  disasters  that  had  befallen  that  cause.  It•  - STYLE=superscript  was  the  last  hope.  the  Continent  could  cherish  for  re re'establishing  'establishing re'establishing  its  independence,  and  if  viewed  through  a  more  sel selfish  fish selfish  medium,  and  the  geographical  posit*  of  the  Peninsula  of  tipain.  i  wainttended  to,  it  would  be  found  that  the  possession  of  its  anti*  Franceinvolved  not  only  our  dearest  interests,  but  the  inure:Mate  safety  of  a  part  of  his  Majesty's  dominions.  With  regard•to  site  result  of  the  Pottage'  Expedition,  and  its  opera operations,  tions, operations,  he.  was  prepared  to  say,  that  no  neglect  ons  attributable  to  -Ministers.  But  of  the  Convention  itself,  whether  it  was  wise  or  expedient  to  afford  that  ca-operation  in  the  interior  of  Spain,  be  would  admit,  a  question  might  hereafter  arise,  which  he  and  his  colleagues  were  ready  to  meet.  His  Lordship  next  combated  the  arguments  respecting  America,  and  said  it  was  clear  the  American  Government  bad  not  poised  the  scales  of  justice  equally  between  England  and.  France.  To  the  latter  they  had  said,  if  yon  rescind  your  decree,  we  shall  consider  our-.  selves  at.  war  with  the  other  Belligerent;  but  to  England,  they  had  said,  if.  you  repeal  your  'Orders  in  Council,  we  will  continue  . STYLE=superscript  our  li.mbargo  only  as  to  France.  It  was  the  obvious  policy  that'  England  should  be  at  peace  with  America,  provided  she  could  maintain  it  consistently  with'  the  honour  and  welfare  of  the  na naiiotr  iiotr naiiotr  at  large.  His  Lordship  concluded  by  pressing  upon  the  Haase  the  propriety  of  an  unanimous  vote.  His  „Lordship  was  followed  by  the  Earl  of  Buckinghamshire,  Lord  .Sidmouth,  Lord  Moira,  Lord  Erskine,  the  •  Clesucellor,  Lord  hinlgrave,  and  Lord.  Auckland;  when  the  Address  wee  carried.  unanimously.  The  Earl  of  Ltvea.POOL  gave  notice  that  he  should  move,  a  Note  _of  thanks,  os  •  Moseley  nest  to  General  Wellesley  and  the  British  Ai  its  Portugal  ;  and  d  on  the  Tharsda  y  folleteting  lay  the  enerespoodeace  of  Estorth  bdora  that  1401  41 STYLE=superscript  b  1 STYLE=superscript  0  6 STYLE=superscript  •  Adjoussed  at  twelve  o'clock.  'AIDA  Y  I  JANUARY  Colonel  Drinkwater  presented  tke  7th  apd  Sth  Report  of  the  board  of  Military  Enquiry.  The  7th  Report  related  to  the  inr  vestigation  of  foreign  accounts,  and  to  those  af  the  Chaplain  Ge General  neral General  of  the  Army  4  and  the  Bth  Report  to  varioub  miscellaneous  matter!.  They  were  orderedlo  by  printed.  Lord  Liv  RR  POOl.  laid  Copies  of  the.  Correspondence  between  the*  Emperors  of  Russia  and  of  France,  and  their  secretarlys,  with  Mr.  Canning,  respecting  the.  proposals  for  a  negociatioa,  as  submitted  from  Erfurth  and  from  Paris:  which  also  were  OF*  tiered,  on  the  motion  of  his  Lordship,  to  the  petuted.rAdjuutwed."
