text
"DUKE  OF  YORK.  Mr.  CIT  ARLES  STI  AW  E,  -examined  by  Mr.  W  . STYLE=superscript  RDI  Did  you  know  that  SOW.  was  given  to  Mrs.  Clarke  on  the  account  of  Colonel  Shane  ?  A.  I  received  a  letter  from  Colonel  Shawc,  stating,  that  he  wished  to  give  3M/.  to  a  friend  who  had  obliged  him,  and  transmitting  me  an  order  to  that  amount  on  Coons  and  Co.  which  was  duly  honoured,  and  which  JOU  I  'mid  to  Mrs.  Clarke  on  the  very  day  on  which  1  received  it.  •  By  the  CIIA  11C  EL  LO  R  of  the  FxcitEQU  ER.—Q.  When  was  this  ?  A.  I  kept  no  memorandum  ;  but  by  referritc  , STYLE=superscript  to  the  books  of  Coutts  and  Co.  I  find  that  it  was  May  the  9ililBoG.--  Q.  [lave  you  got  the  letter?  A.  Unfortunately  I  have  lost  it:  but  I  recollect  it  stated  that  he  believed  Mrs.  Clarke  wished  to  serve  him,  and  though  he  got  his  appohament  through  his  friend  Sir  H.  Burrard,  still  as  she  was  his  friend  also,  he  w  ished  to  be  kind  to  her.  Colonel  Gomm  N  called  in,  and  examined  by  Wit  D  Q.  When  Colonel  Shawe  was  appointed  Deputy  Barrack-Alas  ter-General  was  he  put  on  hillf  pay  ?  A.  Immediately  put  on  half-pay.—Q.  Is  it  usual  for  Officers,  who  accept  a  Staff  appoint appointment  ment appointment  abroad,  to  be  put  on  half-pay  ?  A.  Yes,  with  some  ex exceptions.—Q.  ceptions.—Q. exceptions.—Q.  Was  the  Officer,  whit  had  this  appoilantent  before  Colima  Shawe  on  half  pay  ?  A.  l  think  Color.rl  Shawe  was  the  first  who  held  the  situation;  he  got  it  on  the  capture  of  the  place.—Q.  Was  there  any  deviation  from  rule  in  the  appoint appointment  ment appointment  of  Col.  M.  Shawe  to  the  76th  ;  A.  None  whatever.  By  Mr.  LA  MB.--Q.  Did  you  ever  hear  that  Mrs.  Clarke  sold  or  pretended  to  sell  commissions  in  the  army  before  yeti  heard  it  in  this  House  ?  A.  Never,  but  through  the  medium  of  the  numerous  libels  which  have  lately  been  published  against  the  Commander  in  Chief.  I  have  since  had  positive  proof  of  the  ex.  istence  of  the  abuses.  I  sent  for  Mr.  Frome,  and  after  much  conversation,  he  admitted  that  the  sum  of  10031.  had  been  paid  for  a  Paymastership  in  one  of  the  battalions  of  the  Gere.an  le le;ion.  ;ion. le;ion.  After  repeated  endeavours  to  discover  to  whom  it  had  been  paid,  he  acknowledged  that  Mr.  Ilehden  was  the  person.  The  [louse  will  allow  me  to  state  my  surprise  at  the  impudence  of  this  Gentleman,  when  he  told  me,  that  he  had  received  the  money,  but  would  say  no  more  about  it.  This  is  all  that  passed  on  that  subject.—Q.  What  did  the  Duke  of  York  answer  when  you  communicated  this  business  to  him  ?  A.  lie  desired  that  I  should  scrutinize  the  matter  to  the  bottom,  and  let  the  guilt  fall  On  whom  it  might,  emit  he  would  make  an  example  of  them.  By  .Mr.  WAR,DI.C.--Q.  Through  what  recommendation  as  appears  in  your  olhice,  was  Samuel  Carter  appointed  to  an  Eu Eusigucy  sigucy Eusigucy  in  the  16th  foot.  A.  The  letter  of  recommendation  which  was  then  addresaed  to  the  Deke  of  York,  dated  Royal  tn.  boratory,  Dec.  7,  ISM,  and  stated,  Oat  the  kindness  which  Qis  Royal  Highness  had  always  shewn  towards  I,ieut.  Sutton,  4.7adured  him  to  address  his  Royal  Ilighscsi  in  Etv  our  of  as  01-"
