text
"FRAUDULENT  OFFICE,  THREADNEEDLE-STREET.  •  The  CItANcELLou  of  the  EYCcITEQUEn  thought  it  would  be  in  the  recollection  of  the  house,  that  when  the  lion.  Mem Member  ber Member  (Mr.  Wardle)  first  brought  his  charge  against  the  Duke  of  York,  he  had  mentioned  that  there  was  an  office  in  the  city,  in  Thretidneedle,street,  where  preferments  were  to  be  obtained  through  the  inftueuce  of  the  Lord  Chat  c  'for,  the  Duke  of  Port Portland,  land, Portland,  and,  he  believed,  himself.  lie  continued,  a  gentle gentleman  man gentleman  accordingly  had  some  interviews  with  the  agents;  and  they  falling  very  readily  foto  the  trap,  he  gave  orders  to  the  Solicitor  of  the  Treasury  to  supply  the  gentleman  with  any  sum  of  money  that  might  be  .  wanted  t  o  b  e  l  o  d  ge  d  as  security  at  a  banker':  , STYLE=superscript  .  The  consequence  was,  that  the  transaction  proceeded  so  far  that  he  parties  have  rendered  themselves  amenable  to  a  criminal  roseention,  and  Me.srs.  Coleman  and  Keeler,  Mrs.  Harvey,  and  ganker  in  the  city,  had  been  indicted  for  the  offence.  .  Mr.  IlirsKiSSoN  stated,  that  Watson  was  the  name  of  the  Vanker,  and  that  he  was  a  partner  in  the  house  of  Mes3rs.  Sikes,  Shaikh,  and  Co.  CAMPAIGN  IN  SPAIN.  Mr.  PON'  SONA,  agrecably  to  his  previous  notification,  ex expatiated  patiated expatiated  at  largenne  very  ably,  on  the  conduct  of  Ministers  with  rirspect  to  Spanish  Affairs.  At  that  moment,  (said  Mr.  Ponsonhy)  when  .every  other  power  had  bowed  submission  to  the  yoke  - STYLE=superscript  that  country;  Which  France  esteemed  as  the  firmest  of  her  allies  and  Whom  she  deemed  the  m  os  t  4ubmisSive  of  her  dependants,  rose  with  unanimous  consent  to  repel  the  encroaching  despotism,  and  Spain,  so  tong  sunk  in  apathy,  made  one  last  struggle  to  free  herself  from  /he  usurpation  of  France,  and  applied  .to  this  country  for  assistance.  No  Ministers  ever  entered  under  such  favourable  4ud  such  auspicious  appearances  on  the  .ext  cation  of  their  pfficial  tinges;  party  spirit  was  extingaished;  and  there  was  pot  to  be  found,  throughout  the  country,  a  man  who  would  eipress.  hut  on  e  op  i  n  i  on  ,  name  l  y,  that  the  powers  of  Lugland  should  be  directed  in  the  most  effective  manner  to toiyakds  iyakds toiyakds  the  service  and  assistance  of  the  powers  of  Spain.  But  it  was  their  duty,  before  they  applied  the  wealth  or  force  of  their  country  for  the  prosecution  of  any  project,  to  have  well  understood  the  .  real  situation  of  Spain.  Ministers  were  responsible  not  alone  for  the  means  to  be  exerted  fur  the  assist assistqnce  qnce assistqnce  of  Spain,  but  also  for  the  defence  of  England.  They  were  pot  .  alone  responsible  for  the  money  to  he  expended,  but  they  were  bound  to  take  into  their  consideration  the  state  of  that  country  ift  relation  to  any  other  country  in  Europe,  and  to  as ascertain  certain ascertain  if  it  was  capable  of  resistance  against  the  powers  of  France,  and  in  what  its  resources  lay,  And  they  were  not  to  *,eaken  the  means  of  their  own  country,  unless  they  were  sure  pf  having  the  means  of  efferlizig  the  salvation  of  Spain.  .  Not Notwithstanding  withstanding Notwithstanding  a,  British.foree  found  its  way  to  Spain,.  Mat:rid  flcapitulated  to  Joseph  Bonap  ar  t  e  ,  w  h  o  ,  a  f  ew  d  ays  b  efore,  had  ed  from  it  in  disgrace.  Do  not  these  circumstances  imperiously  call  fur  inquiry,  why  a  British  Army  so  applied,  where  it  could  fie  of  no  use  to  our  Allies,  and  of  no  injury  to  our  enemies,  to  do  nothing,  bar  raise  what  did  not  want  to  be  raised,  its  own  eoararter  for  invincible  bravery,  Why  after  the  Capitulation  of  Nradrid  to  J.  Bonaparte,  was  it  deemed  necessary  for  the  British  army  to  advance  to  attack  the  French  ?  Was  it  in  cousequenee  4,  any  other  persons  offering  their  interference,  ordid  she  instrue instruetioes  tioes instruetioes  come  from  home  ?  Mr.  Ponsonhy  insisted  upon  the  necessity  ascertql,:ing  the  causes  which  led  to  the  countermanding  of  the  first  retreat  ;  of  tracing  to  their  sources  the  misrepresenta misrepresentations  tions misrepresentations  made  of  the  Spanish  people  ;  and  of  obtaining  returns,-  as  for  as  possible,  of  the  losses  sustained  by  the  British  Army.  Ile  pmcloded  by  pressing  the  necessity  of  immediate  inquiry  into  tite  Muses,  conduct,  and  events  of  the  late  Campaign  in  Spain.  front)  CA;T  LER  6u:ft.—Sir,  why  is  a  Committee  of  Inluiry  neerksary  to  decide  upon  any  of  the  points  which  the  Han.  Gen Gentleman'  tleman' Gentleman'  has  produced  ''he  Hon.  Gentleman  .  has  made  a  corn.  p  laintto  the  that  his  Majesty's  Ministers  !lave  no  other  •  .  oc  l  npation  pat  to  keep  the  Tullis  in  the  dark.  I  must  trust,.  that  the  IlitifSe  will  never  concur  iii  this  notion  of  the:  116481ritbia  path  must  doubtless  he  acknow-  Vti  ,  gerr  as  the  her  Own  war.  The  caus  e  wa  g:  04(  of  in  the  fit'Sl  iii;tanee,  and  in  the  first  degree  !Ind  of  I.  l  ll„•ritaiiii  only  - STYLE=superscript  rela  . STYLE=superscript  tli  ,  rl4;  apapescea  e,q  •  tier  ~  inll%,  No  rap  ti  va  g  :  th'af  if  wits  in  Hie  power  of  Eligland,  even  by  the  eni-  P8_TB00016 104  P8_TB00017 {.t~  ~`:'"
