text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  EB.  11.  other,  in  consequence  of  this  levy  ?  A.  At  various  times,  I  paid  to  Mrs.  Clarke  9001.  it  might  have  been  8501.  hot  not  more.—Q.  Do  you  recollect  .any  thing  of  a  loan  of  50001.  that  was  to  be  ad advanced  vanced advanced  by  Colonel  French  to  the  'Commander  in  Chief?  A  never  knew  Colonel  French  to  have  had  500/.  in  his  life;  and  therefore  do  not  know  how  he  could  advance  5090/.  On  our  ae aecount  count aecount  with  our  Agent,  we  are  in  arrear  30001.  on  account  of  this  levy.—Q.  Did  you  not  hear  any  mention  of  this  ad-  Nance  of  five  thousand  pounds,  by  Colonel  French  ?  A.  Most  assuredly  not.—Q.  You  stated  that  five  hundred  guineas  were  first  advanced,  and  afterwards  950/.  can  you  state  that  the  pay  - STYLE=superscript  meat  of  this  850/.  arose  out  of  any  particular  agreemebt  of  se  much  per  man,  or  in  what  proportion  it  was  to  he  paid  ?  A.  The  agreement  was  general.  If  the  levy  should  succeed,  w  e  were  to  pay  Mrs.  Clarke  a  couple  of  thousand  pounds.  There  was  no  explicit  agreement,  but  that  was  understood.  The  levy  .  has  failed.,  and  Mrs.  Clarke  is  the  only  one STYLE=superscript  that  has  gained  by STYLE=superscript  st.—Q.  Hew  was  Mrs.  Clarke  paid  ?  A.  Generally  in  banks  notes.—Q..  Did  she  vieceiVe  the  money  in  large  sums  at  a  time  ?  A.  Two  hundred  pounds  was  the  largest  sum  I  believe  she  re received  ceived received  at  any  owe  time.—Q...  Did  Colonel  French  neter  state  to  you  the  exact  original  bargain  he  pack  with  ?des.  Clarke  ?  A.  understood  that  .500  guineas  were  first  to  be  paid  to  her,  that  2001.  were  to  be  given  to  Mr.  Corti,  and  that  if  the  levy  succeed.'  ed,  Mrs.  Clarke  was  to  have  20001.  Q:  By  ne.  LfeTrLETON.  I  wish  to  know  vrhat  passed  be between  tween between  you  and  Mr.  Corti  ?  A.  lie  was  to  have  . STYLE=superscript  2oo/..  for  his  in-.  troduction  to  Mrs..  Clarke;  nothing  more.  By  a  Member.  Q.  How  often  had  you  Seen  Mrs.  Clarke  (Tur (Turing  ing (Turing  the  whole  negaciation  of  the  levy  ?  A.  About'  rifay  Q.  Was  any  direct  application  made  to  the  Commander  in  Chief  on  the  subject  of  the  levy  !  From  whom  !  Ciilooel  French  and  myself,  of  course,  in  a  regular  manner.---For  hat  purpose  did  you  give  the  live  hundred  guineas  to  Mrs.  Clarke  ?  A.  When  . STYLE=superscript  the  music-master  undertook  to  introduce  us  to  a  'person  high  in  power,  we  thought  it  better  to  give  the  five  hundred  gninens  for  the  assistance  of  such  a  per4ou,  whether  male  or  female;  and  then  we  applied  in  the  reolar  way  to  the  Commander  in  Chief.  Q.  By  Colonel  WOOO.-s-Q.  Did  Colonel'  French  say  that  you  were  to  keep  this  transaction  a  secret  ?  A.  Certainly...-Q.  Do  you  say  that  Mrs.  Clarke  ;required  it  'to  be  kept  a  secret  ?  A.  Most  undoubtedly.  She  -required  that  upon  ail  oecasions  her  name  and  that  of  the  Commander  in  Chief  should  he  kept  secret.—Q.  Did  Mrs.  Clarke  ever  mention  that  she  wisb.st  it  to  be  kept  secret  from  the  Duke  of  York,  that  she  had  received  -any  money  !  A.  Assuredly.  She  desired  that  it  might  never  escape  my  lips  to  any  body,—P.  Do STYLE=superscript  yon  think  that  she  con concealtal  cealtal concealtal  it  from  the  Duke  of  York  ?  A.  believe  she  did.  Mr.  'CO  RR  I  examined  by  Mr. STYLE=superscript  WA STYLE=superscript  RD STYLE=superscript  What  theas STYLE=superscript  substance  of  the  first  conversation  between  you  and  Captain  San Sanden  den Sanden  ?  A..  Captain  Sanden  told  me  he  understood  - STYLE=superscript  that  I  could  propose  the  matter  to  a  person  high  in  power.  I  told  him  1  could  ;  and  so  1.  di&amp;  —Q.  - STYLE=superscript  You  mentioned  the  business  to  Mrs.  Clarke  ?  I  did;  she  told  me  it  was  a  matter  of  great  dif difficulty,  ficulty, difficulty,  and  begged  that  nobody  would  be  recommended  that  -`was  not  perfectly  qualified..—Q.  Does  the  witness  retneniher  the  bargain  that  was  stated  to  have  been  made  respecting  this  levy  by  Col.  French  ardCapt.  Sanden  ?—A.  1  had  mithing  more  than  a  bill  of  -2001.  brought  me  by  Mr.  Cockily  Pray.  have  you  any  papers  relative  to  this  transaction  ?—A  - STYLE=superscript  .  'So.  destroyed  all  the  papers  respecting  it.  I  called  on  Mrs.  Clarke;  she  told  me  that  there  had  been  a  terrible  noise  :  that  the  Duke  was  very  angry,  and  she  desired  me  to  burn  all  the  letters  that,.  had  from  her,  which  did.  E-xamined  by  Mr.  LITTLETO  N.—Q.  Did  you  ever  hear  from;  her  that  the  Duke  of  York  knew STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  those  transactions  ?  that  —A.  She  n  ever  talked  to  me  upon  that STYLE=superscript  suliject,  but  always  said  it  was  a  very  delicate  matter  foe  her  to  open  those  things  to  the  Duke  of  York.—Q.  Did  she  state  any  particular  difficulties?  A.  Yes;  she  said  that  the  Duke  of  York  was  at  that  time  so  watched  by  Colonel  Gordon,  and  she  herself  so  wa  tched  by  Mr.  Greenwood,  that  she  co  uld STYLE=superscript  hardly  get  any  thiv.  , STYLE=superscript  *.  Examined  by  Mr.  SHERIDAY.—Did  Mrs.  Clarke  express  Yorkprehension  of  the  thing  coining  to  the  ears  of  the  Duke  Of  ?  A.  She  said,  the  Duke  had  heard  something  about  the  transac  tion,  and  was  very  angry.—Q.  particular  con  Does  he  ,recollect  'a  n STYLE=superscript  y  versation  on  e  subject  at  te  the  Witness  •  supped  with  rs.  Clarke  ?  th STYLE=superscript  A.  The  first  ti  hue  we  dined  as  well  as  su  M  supped  with  Mr.  Clarke  there  were  two  gentlemen  in.  the  c  ompany,  and  soon  s STYLE=superscript  after  dinner  the  transaction  was  introdaced.  They  said  Mrs.  Clarke  had  . STYLE=superscript  already  received  500/.  *and  Mr.  •  Cockayne  200/.  They  laughed  at  the  Witness  almost  the  w1.1.1e  of  the  evening  for  giving  the  bill  to  Mr.  Cockayne.—Did  they  allude  to  soy  °tint  trausattiou  of  a  siatile  -nathre  3  , STYLE=superscript  A.  One  101  0.........  , STYLE=superscript  .  .  .  _.  __  _..  .  or  them  rraw  the  second  time  I  . STYLE=superscript  Stipped  there,  and  Mrs.  Clarke  introduced  me  to  him.—Q.  Was  there  any  other  gentleman  he  sseond  time  you  supped  there  ?  A.  Yes,  there  was  a  third  geu geudeman.  deman. geudeman.  Mrs.  Clarke  told  me  that  he  was  a  writer  of  a  news newspaper,  paper, newspaper,  and  that  he  world  take  care  of  her.  I  do  not  know  now  what  was  his  name,  or  the  paper  he  wrote  for.—Q.  Did  the  newspaper  writer  appear  acquainted  with  the  other  gentle gentleman  man gentleman  ?  A.  O  yer  !  Mr.  Corri  was  then  asked  by  the  ATTORNEY  -GENERAL,  could  he  describe  the  fi  gure  of  the  t  hird STYLE=superscript  p  erson, STYLE=superscript  who STYLE=superscript  was STYLE=superscript  said STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  'be  a  newspaper  man  ?  A.  lie  was  a  man  of  sallow  complexion,  flail.  hair,  shabbily  dressed,  and  did  not  appear  to  be  an  En Englishman.  glishman. Englishman.  Examined  by  Mr.  fl  s STYLE=superscript  en  nest-flan-is  Q.  Pray  does  the  witness  remember  whether  his  name  was  Finnerty  ?  A.  I  do  not  re remember  member remember  at  all  what  his  name  was,  1  think  it  was  a  foreign  name.  -  , STYLE=superscript  --Q.  Did  he  squint  ?  A.  I  believe  he  •did  a  little,  1  am  not  sure  ;  but  if  he  did  it  was  on  the  left  side.  He  told  me  that  he  had  travelled  a  good  deal,  that  he  had  beets  in  Africa,  and  he  spoke  to  me  a  good  deal  about  Scotch  music.  •  Mr.  Dowkr  examined  by  Mr.  NV  A  RDLE.—Q.  Have  yott  known  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  for  •  w  hat  length  of  time  have  you  known  her?  A.  I  have  known  her  for  eight  or  nine  years.  —  Q.  Have  you'seen  Colonel  French  and  Captain  Sanden  at  Mrs.  Clarke';  house,  in  Gloucester  -place,  at  the  time  she  was  liv  ins  under  *the  protection  of  the  Duke  of  York?  A.  I  have.  havenften  seen  Colonel  French  at  Mrs.  Clarke's  house,  and  Was  informed  there  teat  he  had  giit,a  letter  of  service  by  Mrs.  Clarke's  infinerffe.  I:took  the  liberty  of  telling  her  this  was  very  wrong,  and  endeavoured  to  dissuade  her  from  engaging  h  in  such  affairs;  as'  I  told  her  that STYLE=superscript  not STYLE=superscript  only STYLE=superscript  her STYLE=superscript  own STYLE=superscript  character,  hut  the  Dukes„-  might  be  most  seriously  implicated.  She  told  me;  that  the  Duke  of  _fuck'  was  so  distressed  for  money,  that  she  could  tint  hear  to  sesk.hkm  for  any,.  and  this  was  the  only  way  by  which  her  estiblishpient  could  hr  supporte  d. STYLE=superscript  What  situation  are  •  Examined  stay  Lord  .Fo  LASTUS  a.—Q.  you  in  ?  A.  In  the  department  if  the  Commissari  H  at.  I  have  been  in  that  department  si  nce STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  year  105.—Q.  ow  did  you  obtain  Idiot  plate  ?  A.  - STYLE=superscript  I  'purchased  Vt  from-Mrs.  Clarke.—Q.  Did  you'apply  tai  her  directly  on  the  subject  ?  A.  Certainly  mint,  It  was  she  . STYLE=superscript  N%  he  first  sleggested'os  me.--sQ.  Did  you  give  her  any,  And  what  pecuniary  compensation  for  procuring  you  this  -appointment?  A.  I  gave  her  MIA  and  I.  have  given  . STYLE=superscript  her  inure  1  Money  sittee.:---Q.  Did  you  ever  make  any  -application  to  any  body  else  to  assist  you  i  n STYLE=superscript  p  rocurin STYLE=superscript  g  the  appointment  ?  A  ..Never.  Q.  Ate  you  positi  ve STYLE=superscript  on STYLE=superscript  this STYLE=superscript  point?  A•  Yei.—Q.  In  what  de.  •partment  does  . STYLE=superscript  this  situation  lie  ?  A.  tn  the  department  of  the  Treasury.  •  By  Mr.Yottstr.—Q,ln  what  manner  didlyou  make  the  propo proposition  sition proposition  to  Mrs.  Clarke  . STYLE=superscript  ?  A.  I.  made  no  proposition  ;it  was  her  .  that  suggested  it  to  me  . STYLE=superscript  :  . STYLE=superscript  She  stated  that  she  was  extremely  pressed  for  money,  as  the  Duke  of  York  was  by  no  •means  punctual  in  his  payments.  I  applied  to  my  father,  and  at  first  he  did  not  consent.  Ile  at  last  consented  to  the  propusition,  in  the  confidence  that  it  wo  uld  never  be  made  public.  Mrs.  Clarke  told  me  that  I  should  he  gazetted  some  time  before  that  really  took  place.—Q.  Might  not  you  r STYLE=superscript  father STYLE=superscript  have  applied  to  other  1  friends,  to  assist  in  getting  you  the  appoiutment  ?  lum  certain  he  did  uot.  What  was  his  first  situation?  A.  Mr.  Husatssom.  — STYLE=superscript  Q  . STYLE=superscript  Assistant  Crimmissary  of  Stores  and  Provisions.—Q.  Frain  whom  did  the  notification  of  the  appaintsnent  come  ?  A  .  Mrs.  Clarke  apprised  him  of  . STYLE=superscript  it  three  days  before  the STYLE=superscript  aft  erw  app  ards  takis  ointment  wa  s  made  out.—Q.  What  steps  did  the  witness  to  get  his  appointmeut  ?  A.  Ile  took  no  stepwhere  theses,  but  calling  corn  at  the  (Are  .of  Mr.  Vernon,  in  the  Treasury,  s  '  missions  were  left.—Q.  Did  he  understand  - STYLE=superscript  if  the  place  was  got  through  the  channel  of  any  of  the  Lards  of  the  Treasury  ?  A,  No  ;  he  always  understood  that  it  was  got  through  the  Duke  of  York.—Q.  When  you  first  advanced  your  motle  Mrs  y  to  .  Clarke,  was  it  in  the  confidence  of  receiving  such  an  appoint appointment  ment appointment  ?  A.  No.  I  first  advanced  her  some  money  as  a  loan,  *hid%  she  promised  to  pay  ine••  I  had  .no  view  of  an  appoint appointment  ment appointment  until•after  that  - STYLE=superscript  time  she  proposed  it  tome.  Clarke  ever  in-  Examined  by  . STYLE=superscript  Mr.  So  Elt STYLE=superscript  ID STYLE=superscript  A STYLE=superscript  N.—Q.  Did  Mrs.  sinuate  that  the  Duke  of  York  was  privy  to  taking  the  money  ?  —A.  She'gave  me  reason  always  to  suppose  that  the  Duke-  of  York  w  fsr:'ectly  accoainted  with  these  transactions.  Q.  (B  as STYLE=superscript  y  M  r  .  Itustossost.)  Whether  he  w..s  referred  to  the  Comptroller  ?A.  Yes.—Q.  He  was  asked  whether  he  got  his  letter  of  reference  from  Mr.  Vernon?  A.  No.  •  Mr.  Grant  was  then  called  in  by  Mr.  Wardle.•  He  admitted  he  was  the  Agent  Of  Capt.  Sanden,  and  Col.  French,  in  the  ~  t.atsins•  o  1  the  levy  which  he  ituderstead  to  be  a  joiot  concern  of  t  ip  P  3  P5_TB00008 !•4  41?  •  .1  I  jr  •"
