text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER;  EASTER  HOLIDAYS.  The  sports  of  this  festival  commenced  Monday,  and  the  Ispm Ispmbre  bre Ispmbre  sadness  of  Passion  Week  was  succeeded  by  the  gas  hustle  of  holiday  folks,  the  opening  of  the  Summer  Theatres,  and  a  variety  of  customary  scenes,  which  are  hailed  with  pleasure  by  the  iuha iuhatants  tants iuhatants  of  our  metropolis.  •  EPPING  HU  NT.—Yesterday,  at  an  early  hour,  the  industri industrious  ous industrious  sons  of  Spitaltields,  Bethnal  Green,  and  Whitechapel,  dis disdaining  daining disdaining  the  semnific  powers,  rose  at  the  blush  of  Aurora,  and  prepared  for  the  far-famed  Epping  Hunt,  big  with  the  fate  of  Cockneys.  The  road  from  town  to  the  sportive  scene  was  throriged  by  hunters  of  every  description.  Some  were  heavily  dressed,  and  others  as  hare  of  covering  as  Meleager  when  le.  killed  the  Celedonian  hoar.  The  gallant  troop  displayed  all  the  colours  of  gay  Iris,  and  sable  bearings  of  a  chimney-sweeper  were  often  blazoned  by  the  powderings  of  barber's  apron.  The  cattle  were  composed  of  horses,  asses,  and  mules,  all  high  in  bone,  and  low  in  flesh  ;  and  the  pack  displayed  every  class  of  the  canine  species,  from  the  hull  to  the  lapdog.  After  having  regaled  with  copious  libations  of  genera,  the  motley  groups  ar arrived  rived arrived  at  the  Eagle,  Snaresbrook,  and  other  houses  contiguous  to  the  forest.  A  fine  stag  had  been  previously  carried  from  a  sta stable.  ble. stable.  Hi?,  horns  were  sawed  off,  as  usual,  except  the  front  ant antlers,  lers, antlers,  which  were  braided  with  ribbands,  and  he  was  turned  out  to  the  mercy  of  his  pursuers,  near  Buckets-hill.  Finding  him himself  self himself  at  liberty,  he  dashed  into  Fair-maid  Bottom,  and  sought  re refeee  feee refeee  in  the  Forest.  The  scent  was  then  givea,  and  off  went  the  Like  wind  and  tide  In  a  few  moments  the  ground  was  covered  with  hats,  wigs,  and  the  bodies  of  fat  Citizens.  Riders  were  seen  looking  for  their  horses,  and  horses  for  their  riders.  The  venders  of  gin  and  eat eatahles,  ahles, eatahles,  v,  ho  stood  prepared  for  the  scene,  immediately  rushed  in  to  dispose  of  their  ware,  and  glasses  of  coreial  consoled  the  downcast  hunters  for  bruises  and  pain.  Several  Nimrods,  who  had  pursued  the  sport  of  the  day  in  taxed  carts,  tvere  overthrown  with  the  loss  of  their  wheels,  and  the  coufti-ioa  which  prevailed  produced  coesiderable  mirth,  at  the  ex  pence  or  tailors,  tali  ow  -  chandlers,  weavers,  and  soap-boilers,  who  had  not  been  able  to  restrain  the  fury  of  their  vicious  kicking  donkeys,  and  tins tinschievous  chievous tinschievous  cart-horses.  The  stag,  as  usual,  escaped  from  the  fury  of  its  unqualified  pursuers,  and  many  of  the  hunters  who  had  lost  their  horses  returned  on  foot  to  the  Bald-faced  Stag,  to  celebrate  their  lucky  escape  from  the  perils  of  the  chace.  After  sacri sacri.ing  .ing sacri.ing  at  the  shrine  of  the  Jolly  God,  they  returned  to  town.  Gaer.sityleu  Pi  RlC—The  Fair  at  Greenwich,  and  the  Park,  displayed  a  numerous  assemblage  of  gay  holiday  lads  and  lasses.  hut  the  sear')  easterly  wind  proved  a  drawback  to  the  pleasures  of  Roles(  Poles  . STYLE=superscript  ,  and  those  scenes,  in  open  air,  which  attract  City  A  pprent  ice  and  good-natured  l'emalOs.  In  the  evening  the  votaries  Or  Bacchus  enlisted  under  the  Banners  of  Mars,  and  rua.n  .  y  a  well-contested  battle  was  fought  on  the  Kent-road.  ANNA  SEWARD.  2SI  This  lady  paid  the  common  debt  of  human  nature,  onSatur onSaturday  day onSaturday  March  `?5,  after  a  lingering  decay,  at  Litchfield,  where  she  principally  resided.  She  lived  rather  too  long  for  her  fame,  but  not  long  enough  for  her  friends.  Miss  Seward  was  daughter  of  the  Rev.  Dr.  Seward,  who  for formerly  merly formerly  held  considerable  cleric;d  preferineht.  Mr.  Seward  paid  very  anxious  attention  to  his  daughter's  intellectual  improvement,  having  conceived,  very  justly,  the  most  favourable  opinioa  of  her  mental  powers.  She  was  born,  about  the  ear  1743,  at  the  village  of  Evam,  in  Derbyshire.  of  which  her  father  was  then  rector.  lie  became  afterwards  Prebendary  of  Salisbury,  and  Cannon-  Residentiary  of  Litchfield.  I  t  was  on  the  latter  of  her  father's  promotions,  that  :Vino  Seward  removed  to  Litchfield,  w  here  she  (.0110110e:I  to  reside,  since  her  thirteenth  year,  in  the  Bishop's  Palace.  She  became  originall'y  emitamt,  as  one  of  the  female  poets  of  our  times,  by  her  poetic  novel  entitled  6 STYLE=superscript  Louisa.'  Her  other  publications  hate  beet,  Poems  in  Lady  Miller's  !lath  E•iston  Volume,'  an  Elegy  on  rapt.  Coo!:,'  a  Monody  nu  Major  Andre,'  an  Elegy  on  (her  friend)  Lady  Miller,'  an  Ode  to  General  who  was  afterwards  made  Lord  I  I  eath-  t  field,  her  poem  of  Llangollen  Vale,'  Sonnets,'  acd  several  Poetical  Miscellanies,  together  r.  letter  on  the  Sch  (MI  of  Southey,  inserted  in  Mr.  Davenport's  Poetic::l  She  also  wrote  some  Memoirs  o  f  Erasmus  Darwin.'  lier  Monody  . STYLE=superscript  oil  Major  Andre  is  one  of  her  best  poetical  productions.  and  her  •demoirs  of  Lraonos  rwin  the  least  eretlitalik  of  her  prosaic  efforts.  Her  Literary  Correspondence  was  widely  extensive,  and  highly  respectable.  Anna  Seward  was  once  as  admired  for  the  splendour  of  her  sexual  beauties,  as  for  the  lit-Oh:toe  , STYLE=superscript  of  h,o-  liter,try  reputation.  she  was  highly  accomplished  ;  an,i  morn  e  , STYLE=superscript  ;eeme  f-r  the  sua suavity  vity suavity  of  her  manners,  as  well  as  the  imeiestin::  vivacity  of  h.er  convetsation.  Sae  lived,  however,  till  there  could  bi-  very  little  to  her  desirable  in  life.  Departed  friends,  dissolvi  d  connexions,  iiienaterl  aliretions,  augmenting  mil  ties,  must  render  I;iis  e.orld,  especially  to  females,  little  to  be  valued  at  the  age  of  sixty-six  years.  Considered  with  r'  ference  to  lror  poetical  dm dmmeter,  meter, dmmeter,  iu  which  only  she  can  now  live,  Anna  Seward  was  for-  Innate  enough  to  attract  many  admirers;  and,  among  other  in instances  stances instances  of  homage  to  Iser  talents,  Mr.  }'ark's  poetical  dedication  of  his  Poems  to  her  is  not  the  least  deserving  of  distinction.  April  1,  Mil.  MENTOR.  TO  THE  VESTRY7IIEN  OF  THE  PA.RIST-1  OF  SAINT  MATIJEW,  BEHINAL  GREEN.  Cr.NTLEstEN,—Allow  me  to  return  you  my  most  sincere  thanks,  for  the  very  liberal  and  friendly  support  I  received  from  von  on  Monday  last,  when  a  nai  , STYLE=superscript  :!rabte  attempt  was  made  to  oppose  my  Election,  as  pin-  Vestry  (let  k,  for  the  present  vear,  after  having  been  fur  twenty  years  before  unanimously  Elected  —Had  any  charges  been  brought  against  me  that  pos•  seised  the  least  appearance  of  probal)ility,  I  should  certainly  have  entreated  your  permission  fully  1,0  exylain  them  befcre  the  Election,  but  such  as  were  produced  were  so  foreign  to  any  thing  that  related  to  my  public  character,  that  1  did  not  deem  it  necessary  to  make  any  particular  reply  to  them.  Indepen Independently  dently Independently  of  the  gratification  I  !ere  iv  cd  from  yonruna.nirnouschoice  . STYLE=superscript  of  me  as  your  Vestry  Clerk.  I  have  further  to  thank  you  fur  the  very  handsome  manner  in  ;eh  you  pa•scd  a  NOiC  of  thanks,  and  approbation  of  toy  otlo  i;  I  conduct  daring  the  l  i  me  I  h  ave  been  in  your  employ,  all  :I  tont  you  con,ideted  the  charges  brought  against  me  as  irk  otooq  an  d  vexa  tious.--This  vote  ,  Gentlemen,  is  by  your  ordoN  entered  into  .our  Vestry  Bonk  ;  and  1  shall  never  read  it  wit  hotti  feeling  the  stron;est  emotion'  of  gratitude  for  the  friemlship  r  have  received  at  your  bands  w  hick  will  only  stimulate  . STYLE=superscript  the  to  grcater  exertions,  in  order  to  merit  the  continuance  of  our  favours.  Altho'  I  felt  a  consciousness  of  any  innocence,  still  this  unprecedented  oppositiun  has  g  iven  me  some  uneasiness;  and  when  I  consider  the  channel  from  which  this  conspiracy  against  my  chara  - STYLE=superscript  ler  procee  , STYLE=superscript  !ed,  I  think  it  my  duty  to  take  some  steps  to  bring  the  authors  to  punish punishment,  ment, punishment,  hut  ins  this  as  in  any  other  case  which  has  any  relation  to  , STYLE=superscript  ov  public  character,  1  shall  certainly  he  guided  by  the  advice  •  my  friends.  I  have  the  honour  to  he,  Gentlemen,  With  every  sentimeet  of  regard  and  esteem,  10,  Bethnal-gr-en-road,  Your  faithful  humble  servant,'  .4615,  lion.  JAMES  41Ale"
