text
"C  AVM'.  c.  111  v.  irji  .3.  3%,  To  conclude,  we  venture  to  express  the  wish,  that  our  be beloVed  loVed beloVed  countrymen,  and  fellow  citizens  of  every  rairk-and  descrip-  •  tioo,  mar  suspend  their.  judgment  .on  allfarther  proceedings  un until  til until  the  qecisiou  of  the  States  of  the  realm  shall  he  known.  •  COMMAN  DER  Of  the  troops  stationed  in  .  Worenland.  STOCKHOLM.  MA  RUH  Yon  :  will  probably  have  heard  before  now  of  tile  Revolution  here.—The  King  aftived  in  the  city  from  his  Country  seat'  at  Hoga,  at  seven  o'clock  in  the  evening  of  the  12th—he  slept  in  town.  in  the  morning  of  the  Uth,  the  guards  marched  out  or  town,  and  the  King  and  the  Royal  Family  were  to  join  them  on  the  1304,  in  order  to  proceed  towards  the  insurnrents.  On  the  13th,  at  twelve  o'clock,  the  time  an  pointed  fir  the  carrine  . STYLE=superscript  es  to  be  at  the  Palace,  Major-General  Adlercreutz,  Colonel  .lagerhorn,  and  others,  went  up  to  the  Kinrr  b  's  apartment.  and  Adlercreutz  told  the  King  that  he  must  not  deeart.  The  King  drew  his  sword,  and  on  their  laying  hold  of  ill:  person  he  derended  himself  brave bravely,  ly, bravely,  and  was  on  the  point  of  killing  Adlercreutz.  No  soldiers  were  in  the  Palace,  because  it  was  reported  that  the  King  bad  in  the  night  returned  to  flag  t.  In  the  :text  room  to  that  where  the  King  was,  was  a  servant  called  a  Chamber  'Hazard  of  the  King,  whose  name  is  Selleno.  On  hearing  tite  noise  in  the  room  be  wished  to  open  the  dOor,  but'  it  was  locked;  he  then  broke  even  the  door,  nod  with  his  sabre  in  hand  was  going  to  cut  Adler Adlerereutz  ereutz Adlerereutz  down,  but  the  sabre  was  wrested  from  his,  hand.  In  the  mean  time,  the  unfortunate  Monarch,  without  hat  or  sword,  ran  •  down  the  so  called  Queen's  Stairs;  there  they  followed  him,  and  '  he  took  away  the  sword  from  Colonel  Mello,  and  cut  the  hand  of  one  Count  Snoilsky.  Ile  defended  himself  a  long  time;  but  at  last,  almost  fainting,  they  carried  him  up  to  his  room.-  Ilet•  expressed,  at  first,  his  astonishment  at  their  conduct,  and  still  kept  saying  that  his  principles  are  and  will  ever  remain  fire  sante.  In  the  night  he  •was  carried  out  to  Dromengholm.  On  the  13th  a  great  force  of  the  cuirassiers  and  artillery  was  sent  to  gaga,  where  the  Queen  ?n,nd  her  children  were  and  still  are.  •  Adlercreutz  was  immediately  appointed  the  Commander,  Adju Adjutant-General,  tant-General, Adjutant-General,  and  4;44(1-Marshal  —Count  Klingspor,  Lord  Go Go'  ' Go'  vernor  of  Stockholm—Baron  Lagerbjelke,  Chancellor  of  the  Court.  The  former  Lord  Governor  of  Stockholm,  Count  Uglas,  has  lost  his'  place—every  thing  is  quiet  here.  A  publication  was  issued  on  the  13th,  that  n.ll  taverns  and  public-houses  should  •..he  shut  up  precisely  at  nine  o'clock  in  the  evening  ;  and  the  duty  laid  on  by  the  King  for  carrying  on  the  war,  was  taken  off.  The  regiment  of  the  King's  body  guard,  which.  was  disgraced  ip:  laud,  iras  received  'their  colours,  and  are  reinstated  in  theircrank.  The  Queen  and  her  children  are  not  allowed  to  see  the  %ing;  add,  in  a  word,  no  one  is  allowed  to  come  near  the  castle,  iti  here  •  a  great  number  of  guns  are  placed,  A  Diet  is  appointed  for  the  lst  of  May.  The  Duke  of  Siidermania,  it  is  said,'  will  keep  con  friendly.  terms  with  England  ;  but  I  hardly  think  Bonaparte  will  suffer  it.  Major  Delagrange  is  sent  to  Denmark,  and  from  thence  to  Paris;  Major  Arfvedson  to  St.  Petersburgh,•  and  a  messenger  from  the  Secretary  of  State's  Office  to  England.  I  have  spokeu  to  one  of  the  persons  who  attended  one  day  -on  the  King  at  Drotnengholm;  he  told  me  that  the  King  'ate  but  little,  .  and  that  he  often  went  back  ward  and  forward,  and  clasped  his  ••  hands  together,  and  lifted  up  his  eyes,  as  if  he  were  praying.—  Thus,  this  Monarch,  adored  in  prosperity,  is  abandoned  by  all  --;bud  help  IL:  CT  OF  A  LATTER  FROM  STOCRUOLM,  MARCH  20.  —  :Valor  Advidson,  whO  went  as  a  Courier  to  St.  Petersburgh,  in  order  to  announce  the  change  of  Government  in  Sweden,  passed  from  Stockholm  to  Aland,  and  on  his  way  to  Russia,  he  met  the  Russian  army  Marching  towards  oat  place  (Aland).  hiunediately  seized  on  his  person;  hut  finding  that  he  broanht  a  a  message  for  St.  Petersburgh,  and  the  King  was  deposed,  they  suit:  red  him  to  proceed  ;  but  in:  hi•  representing  . STYLE=superscript  that(-very:  thing  woold  be  settled  amicably,  the  I:ie.:shin  General  answered  him,  that  being  on  his  way  to  Aland,  lie  could  not  stop  ;  and  in information  formation information  has  since  been  received  OA  Aloud  was  taken  pos-es pos-ession  sion pos-ession  of  without  any  resistance  whatever.—On  the  18th,  there  was  a  report  at  Stockholm,  that  Bonaparte  had  promised  Ge General  neral General  Armfelt,  in  a  letter  written  to  him,  that  he  should  be  one  of  those  who  were  to  he  Members  in  the  King's  Privy  Council,  and  that  Russia  has  had  its  hands  in  the  Revolution.  It  is  said  that  Sir  Joseph  Banks  will  proceed  with  the  next  fleet  to  the  Brazils.  A  frigate  is  appointed  to  take  him  out.  lie  is  to  be  accompanied  by  several  naturalists  and  artists  of  fwknowiedged  talents.  That  country  will  af afford  ford afford  to  his  researches  a  rich  fund  of  valuable  curiosities,  both  iu  the  vog►etable  and  mineral  world.  El?  031  271  E  SP.!  AV  1.511  l'.l  ItS.  NI.ANWESTP,..OF  1:111:  SPANISH  The  Supreme  ;junta  of  Spain  have  issued  a  iztnifesto,  deccrib deccribing-,  ing-, deccribing-,  in  the  most  forcible  langnage,  the  present  situation  of  tai  ii  Country,  and  the  cause;  that  have  led  to  the  ellamiti.•4  wita  R  Weil  it  is  now  assailed.  The  Minifesto  retraces  t!te  history  of  the'  connection  between  France  nail  Spain  fee  t  century  t;ack,  and  enumerates  the  uniform  advantages  which  Fmnce  unifornd  derived  from  that  connection,  down  to  the  French  Revolution,  and  even  subsequent  to  that  period.  now  this  faithful  ;Venn ;Vennship  ship ;Vennship  and  useful  alliance  has  since  ilcen  rep:tl,l  by  the  most  cruel  perfidy,  the  blackt!st  ingratitude,  is  btat  too  notorious;  and  the  fate  of  Spain  is  held  up  as  an  awful  lesson  to  every  other  latieuv,  to  guard  against  that  profligate  a:nbi  t  ion  that  would  enslave  them  all„  The  .Manifesto  eonclodes  with  the  following  energetic  Ad Address  dress Address  to  the  dill;  rent  Continental  Pam  ers  Yes,  PCIIICCS  and  Nations  of  the  Cootinent,  your  preser preservation  vation preservation  is  identitiM  with  ours.  The  ?:ratal  syl,tem  of  continental  stilljugation,  which  is  incessantly  lssuing  from  the  lips  of  French Frenchmen,  men, Frenchmen,  comprises  in  their  Own  ags,,  , STYLE=superscript  randi-eiltent  your  ruin.  Do  not  deceive  yoarselves;  ambition  of  Bowl  parte  has  elread  y  triumphed  over  'ltaly,  Holland,  and  Switi.erland,  and  has  con converted  verted converted  the  states  of  tit  , STYLE=superscript  Confederatitm  of  the  :thine  into  the  pro provinces  vinces provinces  of  his  own  Empire.  NN  itlt  the  forces  of  spain  and  Por Portugal  tugal Portugal  he  intends  to  eifect  the  destruction  of  Austria,  and  aftt.r aftt.r-wards  wards aftt.r-wards  to  assemble  the  collective  strength  - STYLE=superscript  of  Et:rept:  to  drive  the  unCortunate  Alexander  into  the  desarts  of  Tartar  .%  Then,  and  not  nntil  all  this  is  consummated,  will  the  projects  of  his  w  lid  ambition  be.  accomplished.  The  ancient  tl  )  nasties  of  the  earth  will  disappear,  he  anti  his  fatally  will  reign  uneontrouled  over  the  nations;  another  feudal  system,  into  e  teougnain  thaa  the  former  will  be  established,  to  the  exclusion  of  tit  :.  light,  and  to  the  destruction  of  the  industry  and  civilization  • STYLE=superscript  to'  three  complete  centuries.  Rut  the  time  has  not  vet  arrived  when  the  tyrant  can  enjoy  the  fruits  of  his  labours.  England,  possessing  great  natural  ad advantages  vantages advantages  from  her  insular  situation,  from  her  power,  and  from  her  laws,  has  cast  the  smile  of  contempt  at  the  mad  convulsions  of  French  audacity.  What  then,  sovereigns  of  Europe,  have  you  to  perform  ?  You  are  invited  to  action  by  fair  opportunity  ,  by  obvious  interest,  and  the  urgent  danger.  if  you  wish  to.  exist,  arm  your yourselves.  selves. yourselves.  From  the  Scheid  to  the  Tyber,  and  front  the  Neva  to  the  Guadalquiver,  may  there  be  but  one  object,  and  may  that  he,  war  against  Frenchmen.  Perhaps  yon  doubt  of  a  stiCresFfit;  result  from  your  elforts.—Be  not  deceived,  Frenchmen  are  neither  invulnerable  nor  invincible;  the  Val'entia  and  Saragossa,  and  the  mountains  of  Palen,  exposed  to  Heaven  and  Earth,  their  shame  and  degradation.  Oh  I  ye  Monarele Monareleand  and Monareleand  Inhabitants  of  the  Continent  imitate  our  firmness,  and  our  perseverance,  and  the  world,  threatened  with  destruction  by  a  brutal  monster,  will  at  length  recover  its  independence  and  repose.  MARTIN  DE  GARAY,  Secretary  to  Oe  Supreme  Palace  of  Alcazar,  Sec  ills,  Jan.  1,  ,~  DECREE  OF  THE  SPANISH  :JUNTA.  His  Majesty,  consicle  i  tilog  that  the  French,  in  the  unjustan  barbarous  war  whio  „theyi  wago  against  Spain,  pay  no  regar'  to  any  principle  of  the  . STYLE=superscript  10,14'  Pi  Ilti  Mai  MlS—that  they  shamelessl.  violate  the  most  solemn  treaties,  as  has  been  Yerified  with  re.  spect  to  the  capitulation  of  , STYLE=superscript  Alattrid,  since,  cnntrary  to  the  stipo  lations  therein  made,  thei  4 STYLE=superscript  .  liiprison,  persecute,  and  bauisl  p  eac  eable  citizens  and  respectirble  Magistrates,  imposing,  at  th.  same  time,  the  most  disgrace  All  punishments  on  other  unfortunat  persons  on  the  slightest  suspicious.and  most  frivolous  pretexts.  —  Seeing  that  they  continue  every  v.liere  to  defile  the  sanctity  temples,  the  purity  of  domestic  honour,  and  to  trample  on  t  rights  of  humanity  — STYLE=superscript  that  acts  of  the  most  atrocious  kind,  a  which  make  human  nature  shudder,  are  daily  heard  of,  such  the  death  of  a  nun,  who  threw  herself  into  a  %yell,  to  avoid  t  brutality  of  a  Frenchman;  the  cruel  murder  of  a  mother,  who  breasts  were  cut  off  in  the  act  of  giving  suck  to  her  son,  by  the  monsters,  who  afterwards  sabred  her  infant  ;  and  a  number  .  other  cases  equally  horrible;  atrocities  painful  to  %%rite,  dread.  Int  to  read,:and  degrading  to  endure  ;—tivatly,  his  Majesty  bei'  convinced,  that  still  to  observe  the  laws  of  natural  equity  s'  those  who  respect  no  law  whatever,  would  not  be  moderat  , STYLE=superscript  and  justice,  but  the  most  culpithle  indillerence  and  the  base.  meanness,  has  resolved  to  repress  and  punish  those  (  - STYLE=superscript  rim(  Calling  therefore  all  Europe  w  i  loess  the  awful  necessity  w  li'  P3_TB00013 •  i  f  (  '  1  Er  il  ii  •  I,  d  •  •  l  i  'l  , STYLE=superscript  1  )i  .  tt  ;  ~  .  •  I  id!  i  1  , STYLE=superscript  I  f  i  t  k  1 STYLE=superscript  ,  i  ,  •  I  I  i  ?  5  I.)  t  '  , STYLE=superscript  .  ;  ‘d  II  e  d  ri  is  (1  ill  Id  i  i•  '-`  1  ''&#34;4:l  Id  •  :,o.  rd  •  ly  .  0  •e-  -..  4  li-  st)  ,  ,  he  tie  ~  of  .he  Laid  :IR  the  ose  ose  of  .  ad-  in  , STYLE=superscript  ill;  ion  sect  nes.  iic•  ,„..  ~4  •"
