text
"TIIE  NATIONAL  REGISTER;  force  to  bear  on  our  army  ;  and  the  glorious  result  of  the  memorable  battle  of  Corunna,  under  all  the  inconveni inconveniences  ences inconveniences  our  soldiers  laboured  under,  will  teach,  at  last,  the  country  and  the  Cabinet,  that  the  idea  of  our  beating  the  French  on  their  own,  or  Spanish,  or  any  ether  ground,  is  not  so  chimerical,  as  has  been  imagined.  Almost  half  '  the  enemy's  force  in  Spain  had  been  detached  against  this  handful  of  ours  ;  and  with  all  their  celerity,  impetuosity,  and  generalship,  they  were  unable  to  prevent  our  retreat;  and,  at  its  termination,  were  signally  defeated.  The  tyrant  himself,  who  iiwnediately  after  his  arrival  on  the  25th  at  the  army,  had  witnessed  the  exploits  of  Our  cavalry,  and  judging  there  were  more  blOws  than  honour  to  be  acquired  in  directing  the  operations  against  the  British  Army,  mean meanly  ly meanly  stole  away  from  the  field  of  honour,  and  confided  to  one  of  his  Subaltern  ruffians  the  dangerous  task  of  driving  it  Sato  the  sea.  He  had,  at  St  Jean  d'Acre,  a  specimen  of  the  laurels  to  be  gained  in  fighting  with  our  soldiers,  and  the  wary,  cunning  and  dastarly  usurper  thought  it  safer  to  compose,  under  the  name  of  Bulletins,  atrocious  libels  against  our  troops,  than  to  fight  them  manfully.  If  this  circumstance  is  not  capable  of  extinguishing  the  admiration  . STYLE=superscript  of  domestic  panegyrists  of  that  usurper,  and  of  rousing  the  confidence  and  energy  of  Ministers  ;  we  will  only  say  the  inveterate  stupidity  of  the  one  is  incurable;  and  that  the  latter  are  incompetent  to  administer  the  affairs  of  this  country.  The  base  detractors  of  our  co-ope co-operation  ration co-operation  in  support  of  continental  independence  are  silenced,  for  ever,  by  the  victory  at  Corunna;  and  the  public  will  be  sensible.  at.  .last,  that  100,000  rum  of  such  mettle,  as  triumphed.on  the  16th  are  not  only  competent  to  resist  the  invaders  ;  but  to  lash  them,  covered  with  shame  and  con confusion,  fusion, confusion,  beyond  the  Pyrenees.  .  On  Wednesday,  the  11th,  the  army  reachtie  Corunna.  On  the  12th,  the  advanced-guard  of  the  French  arrived  at  Betauzos,  a  place  about  twelve  miles  from  Corunna.  On  the  evening  of  the  14th,  a  hundred  sail  of  transports  en-  '  tered  the  bay  from  Vigo;  and  the  following  day  the  re remainder  mainder remainder  arrived.  By  this  tune  the  greater  part  of  the  enemy  appeared  in  the  neighbourhood,  and  occupied  the  adjacent  heights;  so  that  the  Commander  in  Chief  could  no  longer  expect  to  continue  the  embarkation,  which  be began  gan began  on  the  14th,  without  interruption  ;  and,  in  fact,  our  troops  were  engaged,  during  the  whole  of  that  day,  in  in incessant  cessant incessant  ,kirmishes  with  the  enemy.  They  declined,  how how'inter,  'inter, how'inter,  a  general  engagement,  as  their  intention  manifestly  was  to  prevent  our  embarkation  till  their  entire  force  had  arrived,  when  they  thought  themselves  certain  of  over overwhelming  whelming overwhelming  our  army.  These  having  accordingly  arrived  i:nder  the  command,  as  it  is  said,  of  .14170  T,  the  enemy  were  seen,  early  on  the  16th,  making  a  movement,  evinc evincing  ing evincing  an  intention  to  envelope  our  men;  whilst  their  principal  force  was  directed,  however,  against  our  right.  wing,  which  was  towards  Encobras,  and  consisted  of  the  4th,  42d,  and  50th  regiments,  composing  the  brigade  of  Lord  Be:NITINCK.  Under  these  circumstances  Sir  liar,  MOORE  prepared  to  sustain  an  engagement,  which  was  now  become  unavoidable.  Our  position  was  reconnoitered  by  Marshal  SovLT,  be between  tween between  10  and  11  o'clock  in  the  morning,  and  the  attack  7S  was  notwithstanding  a  feint  upon  our  left  by  a  column  and  four  pieces  of  artillery,  made  by  the  French  upon  our  right  wing,  with  great  impetuosity,  and  resisted  by  our  gallant  troops  with  undaunted  firmness  and  perseverance.  It  was  obviously  the  design  of  the  enemy  to  turn  the  right  wing,  and  thus  interpose  between  th©  army  and  the  place  of  em embarkation.  barkation. embarkation.  The  heroic  gallantry  of  men  and  officers  frnstrated  this  attempt  ;  and  notwithstanding  their  repeated  elrorts,  the/  were,  in  every  new  attack,  repulsed  with  great  slaughter..  At  last  some  confusion  appearing  in  their  ranks,  our  men  became,  in  their  turn,  the  assailants.  The  charge  was  made  with  the  bayonet  ;  and  on  this,  as  on  every  other  occasion,  the  enemy  were  not  able  to  resist  it  a  single  in instant.  stant. instant.  In  this  attack,  during  which  the  whole  army  cover covered  ed covered  itself  with  glory,  the  Guards,  it  is  said,  particularly  sig signalized  nalized signalized  themselves.  The  French  were  so  completeV  rout routed,  ed, routed,  and  fled  with  such  precipitation,  that  they  did  not  dare  re-appear  for  fourteen  hours  afterwards.  This  in interval  terval interval  was  occupied  in  embarking  our  troops.  Thus  an  engagement,  where  the  desparity  of  numbers  were  so  very  considerable,  was  decided  by  the  irresistible  effect  of  the  British  bayonet,  in  less  than  three  hours,  from  two  o'clock  till  five  in  the  evening.  Our  loss,  on  the  occasion.  is  much  less  than  could  ha%  n  been  expected,  not  exceeding  in  killed  and  wounded  seven  hundred  men  ;  among  whom  are  several  officers,—a  glori glorious  ous glorious  and  incontestible  proof  of  their  bravery  I  In  the  begin beginning  ning beginning  of  the  engagement  Sir  J.  Nlooas  received  the  fatal  blow  on  the  breast,  by  a  nearly  spent  cannon  ball.  Sir  DAVID  BAIRD'S  arms  was  shot  away►  near  the  socket  by  a  chain  shot,  but,  with  inexpressible  pleasure,  we  announce  that  hopes  are  entertained  of  his  recovery.  The  command  of  the  army  then  devolved  on  Lieut.-General  Horn,  who,  no  this  arduous  occasion  di:-played  equal  bravery,  foresight  and  activity.  The  command  could  not  have  fallen  to  the  share  of  a  more  worthy  Officer.  The  transports  with  our  troops  from  Corunna,  we  are  happy  to  state  are  already  arrived.  Almost  all  the  letters  from  our  sea-ports  coincide  in  depicting  a  sce►►e  of  distress  and  horror  inexpressible.  Whilst  we  so  cordially  sympa sympathise  thise sympathise  in  the  sufferings  of  these  generous  victims,  we  :is  warmly  execrate  the  spirit  of  vacillation,  folly  and  l►rocras l►rocrastination,  tination, l►rocrastination,  which  rendered  the  exertions.  of  this  patriotic  band  absolutely  useless.  They  were  dragged  about  from.  one  province  of  Spain  to  another  ;  and  in  perfect  unison  with  the  consequences  of  the  battle  of  Vimiera,  they  were  ordered.  after  one  of  the  most  splendid  victories  in  our  annals,  to  abandon  the  scene  of  their  exploits  and  succesF,  and  to  fly  from  a  &amp;malted  and  panic-struck  enemy.  How  galling  that  must  be  to  the  feelings  of  our  vic victorious  torious victorious  countrymen  I  They  were  sent  to  the  Continent  for  the  purpose  of  fanning  the  last  flame  of  expiring  freedom--  a  mission  so  hoimurable  and  gratifying  to  British  soldiers,  they  gave,  in  every  opportunity  which  was  allowed  them  of  displaying  their  prowess,  the  most  signal  proofs  of  their  superiorit  y  over  the  enemy  ;  and,  when  their  services  were  most  urgently  requisite,  when.  their  example  and  presence  might  have  supported  the  drooping  spirits  of  our  allies,"
