text
"MARcii  5.  THE  NATION.'  arrogance  even  in  our  age  of  brutal  violence,  be  not  im immediately  mediately immediately  complied  with.—lf  this  unexampled  act  of  out outage,  age, outage,  and  lawless  unblushing  tyranny  has  ti..;;n  offered,  there  is  not  a,membcr  of  the  Austrian  Cabinet,  not  au  individual  altachetl  to  the  army,  not  one  inhabitant  of  the  numerous  provinces,  if  they  have  ever  felt  the  force  of  the  words,  —  Country  and  Independence  *  who  would  not  risk  fortune,  life,  freedom,  every  thing  dear  to  men  and  binding  on  citizens,  sooner  than  consent  to  their  Sovereign's  submitting  to  a  condition,  which  would  reduce  him  to  a  state  of  as  com-  plete  bondage  and  degradation,  as  the  most  despicable  member,  or  roitelet,  of  the  Rhenish  Confederacy,  The  most  prominent  articles  in  ,these  papers,  relative  to  military  movements,  are  the  following.  A  courier  brought  to  General  OuntivoT,  on  the  9thfolt,  an  order  to  break  up,  with  the  corps  under  his  commanid,  and  which  was  station stationed  ed stationed  along  the  .Maine,  and  to  march  by  regiments  to  Augs Augsburg.  burg. Augsburg.  The  ultimate  destination  of  those  troops,  according  to  a  Franckfort  Journal,  is  the  frontiers  of  The  same  paper  mentions,  that  the  reports  of  a  rupture  have  had  a  very  disadvantageous  effect  on  the  Vienna  paper  Money  ;  and  though  it  attempts  to  disprove  the  probability  of  a  war,  acknowledges  that  the  greatest  activity  prevails  in  the  war  departments  of  the  States  of  the  Rhinish  League;  and  that  orders  have  been  issued,  and  executed,  in  Bava Bavaria,  ria, Bavaria,  Wirtemberg,  Baden,  and  Darmstadt,  that  their  contin contingents  gents contingents  may  be  ready  to  march  on  the  first  notice.  The  contingent  of  Westphalia  has  marched  towards  Saxony.  On  the  Left  Banks  of  the  Rhine  there  were  some  move,  meats  of  troops  coining  from  Brabant;  but  their  number  is  stated  as  inconsiderable,  A  namburgh  Paper  of  the  14th  ult.  says,  that  the  latest  letters  from  Vienna  are  p►pre  warlike  than  the  former.  They  spesk  of  the  formation  of  armies,  and  give  the  corn,  ;nand  of  the  army  in  Germany  to  the  ARCHDUKE  CHARLES,  The  ARCHDUKE  FERD►NAND,  the  same  gallant  officer,  who  effected  his  retreat  with  part  of  the  Austrian  army  from  Ulni,  is  to  command  an  army  in  Bohemia  ;  and  General  Count  13ELLEGARDE,  one  of  the  most  di•tiuguished  officers  in  tl►e  Austrian  service,  was  to  have  the  command  of  an  army  destined  to  act  on  the  side  of  Italy.  M.  Von  FAIW  RENDER,  the  intimate  friend  of  the  ARCHDUKE  CHARLES,  and  the  constant  associate  in  his  military  labours,  is  ap-  pointed  principal  Commissary  of  the  Army.  He  is  univer universally  sally universally  considered  to  have  been  one  of  the  most  enlightened,  zealous  and  active  co-operators  in  the  late  re  -organization  of  the  army.  He  rpse  from  obscurity,  and  owes  his  pro promotion  motion promotion  solely  to  his  merit.  Magazines  are  likewise  forming  in  Austria  and  Bohemia.  All  the  Generals,  who  commanded  on  the  Turkish  frontiers,  have  been  recalled  to  Vienna.  In  an  article  from  Lintz  taken  from  a  Paris  paper,  and  probably  fabricated  in  the  French  Capital,  it  is  stated  that  doubts  are  entertained  whether  the  ARCHDUKE  CHARLES  approves  the  measures  of  the  Court,  and  is  willing  to  en enter  ter enter  into  a  new  War.  We  have  through  the  same  channel  the  assertion  that  the  Austrian  regular  troops  amount  only  to  144,000  men;  but  that  it  is  not  practicable  to  find  a  train  of  artillery  for  au  army  of  60,00  Q.  We  have  noticed  this  statement  from  no  other  motives  than  to  efface  false  impressions  which  some  of  our  Readers  may  have  received  from  this  article  and  to  expose  the  ignorance  and  levity  of  soul°  editors  of  our  daily  prints.  AL  REGISTER.  133  The  Day  of  this  morning  contains  these  words:  46 STYLE=superscript  learn  with  considerable  anxiety,  that  the  ARCHDUKE  66 STYLE=superscript  CHARLES  is  not  cordially  reconciled  to  the  views  of  the  Austrian  Cabinet.  On  his  genius,  &amp;c.  we  should  rely  more  for  success  than  on  the  combined  talents  of  the  Austrian  Cabinet,  and  all  the  Generals  in  its  In  the  same  column  this  paper  has  the  following  remark  :  BONAPARTE  is  arrived  at  Augsburg.  lle  is  said  to  hay.  sent  formal  proposals  to  the  Court  of  Vienna,  which  de-  manded  immediate  compliance,  and,  in  case  of  refusal.  ••  threatened  the  instant  renewal  of  hostilities.  Among  these  proposals,  &amp;c.  and  insisted  that  the  new  levies  46 STYLE=superscript  should  be  reduced  to  45,000  Let  any  man  of  common  sense  compare  these  two  arti articles.  cles. articles.  In  the  first  the  writer  expresses  his  regret  that  the  A  RCH  DU  K  E  CUARLES,  on  whose  distinguished  talents  he  be bestows  stows bestows  a  deserving  encomium,  disapproves  of  the  resolution  of  his  Court,  in  not  acceding  to  IiON.iPARTE'S  demands  ;  which,  he  acknowledges  in  the  second,  threaten  hostili hostilities  ties hostilities  unless  the  Austrian  Army  be  reduced  to  forty-five  thousand  men.  Can  any  thing  be  mote  drivelling.  He  ex extols  tols extols  the  genius  of  the  AltfliDUKE  beyond  the  combined  talents  of  the  Court  and  the  Itrmy,  and  guilty,  at  the  same  time,  of  the  •  imbecility  as  to  suppose  that  this  very  Hero  is  dissatisfied  that  his  country  has  not  submitted  to  the  most  degrading,  the  most  ;outrageous  insult  .ever  offered  to  an  independent  state  Phis  is  a  good  specimen  of  the  discernment  and  sagacity  of  the  Editor  of  the  Day  !  The  Morning  Chronicle  has  been  betrayed  likewise  into  error  by  this  very  article  from  Lintz  ;  and  appears  to  credit  its  statements.  It  is  usual  with  the  French  Government,  whenever  it  wishes  to  delude  the  public  opinion  in  France,  or  the  neigh neighbouring  bouring neighbouring  states,  to  fabricate  articles,  which  are  ushered  to  the  world  as  pretended  extracts  from  foreign  journals,  These  generally  appear  in  some  one  of  the  minor  Paris  papers,  and  are  afterwards  copied,  in  all  the  journals  in  Germany,  llollaud,  and  France,  and  other  countries  under  the  con controut  trout controut  of  the  tyrant.  The  remarks  on  Turkey  generally  appeared  under  the  title  of  Notices  from  Presburg.  Those  relative  to  Spain,  and  which  were  calculated  to  prove  the  facility  and  advantage  of  subjugating  that  country,  made,  perhaps,  their  first  appearance  in  the  Hamburgh  Correspon Correspondenten,  denten, Correspondenten,  or  the  Franckfort  Journal  ;  and  from  thence  found  their  way  into  the  Paris  and  other  papers.  The  ar article  ticle article  relative  to  Austria,  tending  to  convey  an  idea  of  her  inadequate  resources,  and  alluding  to  the  disap disapprobation  probation disapprobation  of  her  most  distinguished  General  has  a  greater  weight,  when  it  appears  to  be  written  from  Lintz,  an  Austrian  city,  not  far  frcm  the  Bavarian  frontiers,  This  forgery  of  dates  and  places  is  one  of  the  most  conspi,  cuous  artifices  which  the  wily  despot  employs  to  impose  upon  the  French  army.  After  having  formed  the  project  of  subverting  the  Austrian  Monarchy,  it  is  his  interest  to  circulate  the  report  that  its  military  resources  are  extremely  incomplete,  and,  consequently,  the  execution  is  by  no  means  difficult.  Upon  the  same  principle,  if  such  a  man,  as  the  ARCHDUKE  CHARLES,  who,  by  the  bye,  enjoys,  among  the  French  officers,  the  highest  repu,  tation  for  military  talents,  is  supposed  to  disapprove  the  measures  of  his  Court,  the  inference  is  naturally  made,  that  the  situation  of  Austria  must  be  desperate,  anil  her.subju her.subju'  ' her.subju'  gation  inevitable,  T  1  P9_TB00016 I  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  MARCH  5.  POPULAR  PREACHERS.  Nu.  Con  hath  now  sent  his  Living  Oracle  Into  the  world,  to  teach  his  final  fill  ;  And  sends  his  Spirit  of  Truth  henceforth  to  du  ell  In  pious  hearts,  an  inward  oracle  '!'u  all  truth  requisite  for  men  to  knou.—MlLTu  REV.  JOIIN  WILCOX,  A.  M.  F  ELI-C  11.1  1 STYLE=superscript  1121.  EOLIMI:V.  THOSE  to  whom  the  recollection  of  the  Itcv.  Elislta  Faulke Faulkener  ner Faulkener  must  readily  recur  (and  who  is  there,  of  any  - STYLE=superscript  standing  in  the  religious  world,  that  does  not  remember  him  ),  will  fuel  solici solicitous  tous solicitous  to  know  something  of  the  character  of  his  present  •uccessor  ip  the  pulpit  of  Ely-Chapel.  Mr.  Faulkener,  wa,  Minister  of  Ely-Chapel,  and  Afternoon  Lecturer  at  St.  (iiles's  in  the  Fields  :  41r.  Wilcox  is  also  Minister  of  Ely-Chapel,  and  Lecturer  ot  St.  Cieorge  the  Martyr  ia  Southwark.  Mr.  I'aulkencr  was  numer numerously  ously numerously  followed,  and  is  still  held  41  remembrance,  by  the  chart:hrs.  IVilcox  is  now  highly  esteemed;  and  is  likely  to  gain,  as  well  as  continue,  in  general  estimation  as  a  chnstian  preacher.  Let  me  be  indulged  to  pause,  for  some  short  moments,  on  the  clerical  character  of  Mr.  Faulkener;  who  is  thus  recalled  to  my  observation,  and  of  whom  I  scent  to  retain  theanost  lively  recol recollection.  lection. recollection.  Elisha  Faulkener  lived  but  for  the  pulpit.  His  professional  feeling  was  in  him  paramount  to  all  other  feelings  ;  and,  what  is  not  always  the  case,  his  ability  WaS  not  inferior  to  his  inclina inclination.  tion. inclination.  His  sermons,  which,  two  or  three  head-ootes  excepted,  were  generally  extemporaiwOus,  were  intrinsically  interesting,  and  were  always  delivered  with  an  euergy  and  dignity  truly  im impressive.  pressive. impressive.  No  preacher  bett:l  - STYLE=superscript  knew  the  authority  attached  to  t',e  sacerdotal  cuaracter,  or  more  eilicaciously  availed  him:elf  of  its  commanding.  influence.  Ins  ardour  invested  hint  with  that  dignity  to  w  bleb  his  person  was  not  fully  intaled.  11  is  looks,  his  speech,  his  action,  all  bespoke  him  conscious  of  his  sub sublime  lime sublime  function.  It  VI  71S  iMpOSsi  hie  tint  to  listen  to  hint,  and  equally  impossible  to  hear  him  indifferently.  lie  affected  others  as  himself  appeared  to  he  affected.  llis  was  the  eloquence  of  the  heart,  rather  than  of  the  tongue  ;  for  his  language  was  sim simple,  ple, simple,  his  illustrations  todaboured  b  and  his  sentenee,softeo  neAligent neAligently  ly neAligently  constructed.  lle  spoke,  however,  as  one  having  authurn,  and  not  as  the  scribes.  His  error  consisted  in  carrying  this  superi superiority  ority superiority  to  an  extent  that  sometimes  bordered  on  pomposity.  It  %Vas  indeed  amazing  ;  short  as  he  was  in  stature,  to  contemplate  him  walking  down  the  aisle  of  the  church,  aud  then  ascetalmg  the  pulpit.  The  pulpit  was  his  throne  upon  earth  ;  though  it  formed  only  the  steps  of  that  throne,  to  w  hich,  let  us  believe,  he  has  now  ascende  tin  heaven!  Ile  must  be  considered  as  one  of  the  last  of  the  old-school  of  preachers  iu  this  couotrv.  lie  is,  therefore,  to  be  classed  with  the  Madans,  and  Patiicks,  and  Colons,  and  Decoetlogons,  of  I  he  pul  .  1  feel  pleasure  in  saying,  el.en  while  now  entering  upon  this  clerical  criticism,  that  the  V.  J  %%  LCO  promises  to  supply  one  of  the  malty  vacancies  which  the  decease  of  vari various  ous various  eminent  clerg)  men,  together  with  the  augmenting  intirioi intirioities  ties intirioities  of  others,  have  occasioned  in  the  christian  church.  Hal,  log  generally  premised  this  opinion  of  his  preaching,  I  shall,  front  anxiety  for  his  improving  and  maturing  those  ministerial  qualifi qualifications  cations qualifications  v.  ith  which  he  is  happily  ;..,.ifted,  candidly  state  the  par particulars  ticulars particulars  in  which  he  strikes  the  as  being  still  defective.  The  person  of  the  present  Preacher  gives  him  many  advantages  ns  an  orator.  IL  is  rather  tall  ;  his  form  is  manly,  deport deportment  ment deportment  dignified,  and  his  countenance  prepossessing.  Is  he  nut  too  seen-ible  of  these  personal  qualifications  ?  I  would  not  he  severe  concerning  Mr.  Wilcox;  but  I  could  not  amid  ste:pccting,  oiwe  or  t  w  ice  during  his  Sermon  for  the  Benefit  of  the  I.uodon  Female  Yetiitentiary,  that,  conscious  of  his  pulpit  powers,  he  rather  cit.:minded  admiration.  Ido  not  mean  to  question  1113  sincerity,  of  which  his  unfeigned  earnestness  was  the  best  evidence.  Certainly,  however,  there  seemed  too  touch  of  uratorieal  preparation  about  his  professional  deportment  ;  and  too  much  anticipation  of  the  success  of  his  preaching.  Let  him,  if  possible,  discard  the  precision  of  taking  off  his  spectacles,  after  he  enters  the  pulpit,  and  at  the  exact.  instant  when,  having  closed  this  portion  of  devotional  melody,  he  is  proceeding  to  pray,  befora  sermon,  for  himself  and  his  'hearers.  lie  makes  little  use  of  his  glasses  afterwards;  aunt  he  might,  at  any  rite,  defer  putting  totem  On  till  he  was  about  to  read  and  announce  his  text.  The  pulpit  ra.lejs  of  Mr.  Vi  ilcux  are  ;  as  well  as  hi)  diacourio,  extetu-  15f)  porary.  lie  Lou  much  hurries  o'er  our  In-kris  Prayor  sti  It,  it:stead  of  iti  being  the  an  it  forinkal  only  tied  supplement  to  his  own  intercessions.  Ii  is  vo  i  ce  ,  w  hi  c  h  is  li  t  )!  II  intit):l  . STYLE=superscript  lollS  and  powerrul,  ensiblro  Mr.  IVilcox  to  deliver  his  pennon,  and  ellitaiclousl).  Ile  betrays,  however,  many  of  the  errors  incident  t  o  ti  le  emelt  ,  •  poraneous  eloquence.  Evidently  solicitous  as  to  acctirstey  and  elegance  of  language,  he  too  frequently  attempts  to  k  orr  e  ct,  by  recallin;f,  his  expressions;  and  one  of  the  too:4  unfortunate  coo coo,  , coo,  neetives  of  public  speaking  1  ''  I  6 STYLE=superscript  pjLy  4 STYLE=superscript  continually  employed  by  hint,  either  to  rv•uate  Ina  thread  of  hie  di-course,  or  to  enforce  swat,  particular  point  *sr  o  pini  o  n.  l'ossessiog,  as  this  preacher  does  pis-t  S  ,  st  ineonsitlp:rahln  euce  of  phiraws,  let  the  orator,  'a  how%  cr  L  the  spi  tt  o  . STYLE=superscript  ,4  of  h  i,,  popular  ext  rtions,  divest  of  evt  ry  anxiet,  rv,.  lie  cting•  petty  defects.  If  the  heart  be  but  in  flow,  words;  Will  !~itiu  illy,  Ind  therefore  forcibly,  suggest  diet  is  Lties-;y'  c,  for  inaccuraQ  ;  or,  rather,  the  rapidity  tiie  speaker,  UUrpf  ,  lug  along  tt  lilt  Itiin  the  s:,;tipatily  ErnoW  Ibeta  lei4ttre  to  discover  incidental  and  trivial  deviation  s  feol  t  i  customary  propriety,  it  is  alike  bungling  and  iinpotitie  t  u  s  it  respects  extemporary  oratory,  for  the  spett4er,  by  his  hr  {  tlttiuh'  correctio:s,  point  out  inaccuracies  which  went  imperceptible.  This  defect  is  easily  reatediablt:  l  ittid  is  these.  fore  deserving  of  little  toleration.  .  Mr.  IN  ilco  s STYLE=superscript  i  does  not,  1  think,  trust  wholly  to  tho  lle  appears  to  premeditate  much  of  lus  language  ;  ;111  1  1  lti  b  v  im  ,  to  assist  his  memory  ith  the  divisions,  pernups  leading  ttotii ttotiiinenis,  inenis, ttotiiinenis,  of  his  sermon.  'fliese  pardonable,  if  not  indisliglit  ti  bie  t.  a..sistances  seem  contained  within  the  leaves  of  his  poi  , STYLE=superscript  Act  bibl  es  Ili,  language,  truth  require  , STYLE=superscript  sue  to  observe,  partaloi  vitt  fief  or  the  modern  evangel:cal  somin:try.  Ile  is,  Ito  wtler,  6  1  0  11  11  0  1  y  mose  cla,  , STYLE=superscript  iral  and  polished  thao  the  chapel  preactivr  4  of  the  evaii4eliral  connection..  Without  mentioning  it  lig-alit-4  him  as  a  fault,  I  nufsl  friAi  l  rt  as  a  detect,  though  it  is  one  by  no  means  ltecOlial:  lo  preacher,  that  is  nut  more  deeply  acquaititild  the  motives  of  human  actin's.  Molt  of  this  deticienvy  this  fli;.4  c,.rnible  in  his  Sermon  f  the  L  udoa  female  Veniteett  h  fy,  Zealous  as  were  his  appeals  to  t  aneetions  of  his  podilit  ;  raid  satisfactory  as  might  also  he  his  represeteations  of  On  h  it  tu  fe  and  conduct  of  this  Evangelical  Alagdaleu,  there  roc  s  strike  and  move—little  of  the  origioality  of  humanity  tit  i  o  s!  l  powerful  ehtllliiiitts,  combined  of  mind  and  heart,  WOO!  r”  i  t;  the  most  oegligeot,  and  affect  the  most  canons,  of  heili4.:7:‘  I  remarked  other  seeinitig  iiicongruities.  Whet(  lie  was  so  jat.toi  lt  ,  admonishing  the  juvenile  pitting  of  his  congregation  ago  iost  Jig  vaiiitv  ut  gay  dresses;  did  it  never  occur  to  hint,  that  ;lo  t  preacher  was  himself  handsomely  attired,  and  graceln!ly  gam?  Remarking  this  trilling  intanipatinilit),  was  ;  'how,  ever,  really  surprised,  whew  Air.  AV  oleos,  appealing  fit  the  feelings  of  the  females  arrow'  him,  on  heitall  of  the  &amp;i  f  ,  ones  whose  relief  he  Was  isteaidinz,  described  one  of  frtti  feimitie  penitents,  to  them,  as  a  Wiwi:Aiding  sister  Ido  hot  s  up,  pose  him  to  have  been  ;twat*.  of  'this  curious  epithet,  its  I  ittt  convinced  lie  did  not  persakve  Ate  strange  effect  of  its  joithedifilp  application.  Let  Mc-W*44.  beware  of  OPP  PY44l4ifill  tie;  cent  rick  ies.  '  Of  the  charitable  10144111tiun  denominated  the  London  lielhule  Penitentiary,  so  hurntruely  advocated  by  Air.  Wiletq  l  pleased  to  find,  that,  while  a  part  of  the  house  is  41101:1)101.:  ated  to  Irvine.  Sc  rs  ice,in  which  suitable  discourses  aro  defi  ed  ;  every  Lord's  Day  ;  by  approved  Aliuisters  of  the  tiosto:l  i  ce,tivelv  anpoint‘A  to  that  yet  it  has  not  expedient  that  tho  'Worship  sliould  be  open  to  the  Poblif,'?  the  Ma?;dalen-t  hapelisk  .1  think,  quite  enough.  A  writer,  ,  of  /  shrewd  sense  and  sound  thought,  Mr  ;  fhl  t  k  i  contests  thcnpritnettble  :of  the  Loudon  Female  Peottention  tether.  Itir  prolitphlet  on  the  subject,  it  should  he  4  . STYLE=superscript  1:16,4km  i  contains  tuote•of  stsegious  argument  than  of  solid  1111111iiiii;k  ;  whatever  are  ft's  authors  claims  to  the  suffrages  of  the  nut  expect  to-obtain  the  oblations  of  the  besot.  4  io  nt  i  g  h  e  are  forbid  to  do  evil  in  order  that  good  may  come,  itto  t  o  fit  nu  injunction  which  forbids  us  to  do  good  lest  evil  51m41.4  Let  this  FAnale  Penitentiary  be  4hlised  ;  and  lei,  the  ol,suo  t  i  it  take  the  credit  ut  abusing  it  to  themselves.  llovoieyef  1  mil milrespect  respect milrespect  Mr.  Hale's  powers  of  ratiocination  ;  1  haft!,  tilefehov  i  to  deprecate  his  want  of  comoriserati,m,  Wickeslnos§  WW  I  often  quite  as  titifortunate  as  it  is  criminal  ;  is  mostly  emitted.  fig  OUT  CULTIIIaSiOn.  s  Mr.  V  . STYLE=superscript  Vilc.)x  confesicd,  from  his  own  pulpit,  that  fig  ti&amp;  on  , STYLE=superscript  .  lione  prejudiced  against  the  Lo9duti  Veniale  but  declined,  at  the  saute  time,  with  a  candour  lionotiibl  e  s  ttr  Teti  cl.tatater,  Lis  vulu.itary  renunciatiou,  fruz  P15_TB00015 mu  P15_TB00016 T  P15_TB00017 I\  4  l"
