text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  0 STYLE=superscript  5S  coral  place,  America  bec.vale  inditrereat  to  a  trade  which  bud  lost  so  rmich  of  iti  trier  profits.  In  this  stale  of  thhigs,harrassQd  as  much  by  the  manne  r  in  which  the  English  orders  el  Council  were  executed,  as  by  the  enactments  of  the  orders  thcniStlveP,  the  :American  oyernment  resolved  to  p-urchas  , STYLE=superscript  2  ti:eir  quiet  by  a  sacrifice  of  what  trade  still  remained  to  i!lem,  and  as  this  return  of  trade  was  but  small,  the  iIIeaSZUC  was  stronger  in  appear appearance  ance appearance  than  in  reality.  The  Americans,  in  fact,  have  sacri sacrifictd  fictd sacrifictd  little,  as  the  Orders  of  Council,  united  with  the  B.rlin  Decree,  bad  left  them  but  little  to  sacrifice.  Under  these  circumstances,  the  Americans  issued  their  Embargo  Acts,  which  they  have  followed  .up  by  their  •  Non-Intercourse  Bills.  A  very  general  misunderstanding  seems  to  prevail  in  this  country  with  respect  to  the  national  character  of  the  Ame Americans.  ricans. Americans.  We  confound  the  towns  with  the  people,  the  renegades  and  refugees  of  every  country.  with  the  natives  of  America—the  ye  :men  of  the  woods  and  fields.  The  American  seaport  towns  are  not  to  be  t  alien  as  specimens  of  the  great  mass  of  the  people.  The  inhabitantsof  these  towns  are  a  mongrel  motley  mixture;  they  are  composed  of  fo foreigner:;  reigner:; foreigner:;  of  every  nation  in  the  worid,  who  have,  in  fact,  no  country,  and  by  the  mildnes  - STYLE=superscript  i  . STYLE=superscript  of  the  American  13,W5  1  have  beet  snared  to  become  denizens,  or  perhaps  actual  citi  tens.  These  men  have  certainly  no  such  thing  as  a  patriotic  sentiment  about  them  ;  they  are  perhaps  the  most  base  and  profligate  set  of  people  that  are  to  be  found  on  the  face  of  the  earth.  but  is  it  retsonable  to  takc.the  American  cha character  racter character  as  it  is  seen  in  these  renegades  ?  'The  true  Areierican  character,  as  we  have  said,  l's  to  he  4dught•ln  the  .woods  and  in  the  fields;  we  shall  there  find:pattiots  not  unworthy  of  their  ancient  English  stock.  .  .  •  This  error,  as  to  the  Aiiiertcnatip,  character,  has  ted  us  into  others.  Became  the  merchants  of  New  York  and  Boston  have  clamoured  aaaii.isi  the  F.mbartto  Acis— Acisbecause  because Acisbecause  the  Northern  States  have  voted  against  it  in  their  eilbs  and  city  dinners,  we  have  most  absurdly  tiatiered  our our•elves  •elves our•elves  that  America  was  on  the  actual  point  of  a  counter  revolution—that  the  people  would  rise  in  a  mass,  and  com compel  pel compel  the  Government  to  abandon  its  prohibitory  c  stern.  - STYLE=superscript  rhe  American  people,  .  however,  as  a  people,  have  had  it  recent  opportunity  of  expressing  their  sentiments  in  die  election  of  a  new  Presideni:,  uid  the  result  of  such  an  i.-  - STYLE=superscript  :preT;ion  has  been  the  appointmeet  of  the  iMmediate  of  Mr.  Jefferson,  an:l  of  Lie  svarincit  advocate  for  .  the  Non  Intercourse  system.  After  this  elucidation  of  the  national  mind  in  America,  shall  we  suffer  any  one  again  to  i;sveive  us  by  the  oft-repeat  4i  that  the,Ameri the,American  can the,American  Govermilent  will  be  compelled  to  abandon  its  system,  h.o  , STYLE=superscript  Orders  in  Council  arc  at  present  in in-tely  -tely in-tely  have  their  .rrow  Ilmits  t€  which  the  neccs neccs,ust  ,ust neccs,ust  confine  any  single  in  of  thi4  iinestioa  pre;ent,  iiriclied  (in  its  leVilim  feature;  ;  future  . STYLE=superscript  occaiion.  It  is  ,very  oroughly  underitood.  .-  ;  Tinted  and  it'..loliewd  and  J.  ii.  t  1.:  at  t!  of  .4,  .itut  .  GERMANY.  :Eit  %AY  AN,  APRIL  13  FOREIGN  INTELLIGENCE.  FROM  TILE  THE.fRENCH  AND  DUTCH  PAPERS.  c  PKGPCL43I.ITION:  VTICNNA,  Aran.  6.--  - STYLE=superscript  -Theprotectionlof  our  country  calls  .is  to  new  exploits.  As  long  as  it  %%  as  possible  to  prl':,;.`rve  pence  by  Me3llS  of  sacrifices,  and  as  long  as  these  sacrifice:  vereconsisteot  with  the  honour  of  the  Throne,  with  the  security  of  the  Stale,  and  with  the  welfare  of  the  People,  the  heart  of  our  bountiful  Sovereign  suppressed  every  painful.feeling  in  silence  ;  but  w  hen  all  endeavonrs  to  preserve  happy  independence  from  thelinsntia thelinsntiable  ble thelinsntiable  ambition  of  a  foreign  Conqueror  proye  fruitless,  when  na natioos  tioos natioos  arc  falling  around  us,  and  when  lawful  Stivereigns  a:4!  torn  from  the  hearts  of  their  subjects,  tt  hen,  in  fine,  the  danger  of  universal  subjugation  threatens  even  the  happy,  States  of  Austria;  and  their  peaceable  fortunate  inhabitants;  then  doe,;  our  coun country  try country  demand  its  deliverance  from  .us,  and•  we  siandlorth  in  its  clerence.  On  von,  my  dear  Brother  Soldiers,  are  fixed  the  eyes  of  the  universe,  and  of  all  tiro-c'  who  still  feel  for  aatioinal  honour  and  tuvimutl  prosperity.  'Von  shall  not  share  the-disgrace  of  be.:  comiog  the  tools  of  oppression.  Yon  shall,  not  carry  on  the  endless  wars  of  ambition  under  dis  . STYLE=superscript  tant  climes:  our  blood  shall  never  flow  for  foreign  fleets  and  foreign  covetousness  ;  wit  on  v•on  shall  the  curse  alight  to  annihilate  innocent  nations  ;  And  over  the  booties  of  the  slaughtered  defenders  of  their  coun country  try country  to  pave  the  way  for  a  foreigner  to  the  usurped  throne.  A  happier  lot  awaits  you  ;  the  liberty  of  Europe  has  taken  refuge  under  our  banners:  Your  victories  will  loose  its  fetters  ;  and  your  brothers  in  Germany,  yet  in  the  ranks  of  the  enemy,  long  for  their  deliverance.  You  are  engaged  in  a  just  cause,  other otherwise  wise otherwise  I  should  not  appear  at  your  head.  On  the  fields  of  Ulm  and.Marengo,  whereof  the  enemy  so  often  remind  its  with  ostentatious  pride,  on  these  Gelds  will  we  renew  the  glorious  deeds  of  Wurtsburgh  and  Oitrach,  of  ptin ptingen  gen ptingen  (Stockach),  and  Zurich,  of  Verona,  of  the  Trebbiaand•No Trebbiaand•Novi.  vi. Trebbiaand•Novi.  We  will  conquer  a  tasting  peace  for  our  country.  But  the  great  aim  is  not  to  be  attained  without  great  virtues.  Uncondi.  tional  subordinatiou,  strict  discipline,  persevering  courage,  and  unshaken  steadiness  in  danger,  are  the  companions  of  true  forti fortitude.  tude. fortitude.  Only  a  union  of  will,  and  a  joint  co-operation  of  •  the  whole,  lead  to  victOry.  My  Sovereign  ated;Brother  has  invested  me  with  extensive  powers  ttt  reward  and  to  punish.-1  will  be  every  where  in  the  Middle  of  you,  and  you  shall  receive  the  first  thanks  of  your  country,  from  your  General  on  the  field  of  battle.  The  pa patriotism  triotism patriotism  of  many  of  the  Austrian  Nobility  has  anticipated  your  wants:  this  is  a.pledge  in  the  fullest  measure  of  the  public  gra gratitude  titude gratitude  ;  but  punishment  Flinn  also,  with  iullexible  rigour,  fall  on  every  . STYLE=superscript  breach  of  (filly  z  merit  hall  meet  with  reward,  and  of offence  fence offence  w  it  h  animadversion,  without  distinction  of  person  or  rank  ;  branded  with  disgrace,  shall  the  worthless  person•be  cast  out,  to  whom  life  is  dearer  than  his  and  our  honour.  Adorned  with  the  marks  of  pinlie  esteem,  will  I  present  to  our  Sovereign,  to  the  world,  those  tirave  men  who  have-  deserved  well  of  their  cowl cowltry,  try, cowltry,  and  whose  names  I  will  ever  carry  in  my  -heart.'  There  remains  one  cinisideration,  which  I  muscput  you  in  mind  of  :  the  soldier  is  only  formidable  to  the  enemy  in  arms  ;  virtues  must  not  be  strangers  toliim  :  out  of  the  lield  of  battle,  towards  the  unarmed  citizens  - STYLE=superscript  and  peasants  he  is  moderate,  com compassionate,  passionate, compassionate,  and  humane  :  he  knows  the  evils  of  war,  and  strives  to  lighten  them.  I  will  p:tnish  every  wqnton  excess  with  so somuch  much somuch  greater  security,  as  it  is  not  the  intention  of  our  :Monarch  to  oppress  neighbouring  countries.  but  td  deliver  them  from  their  oppresi,ors,  and  to•  form  with  their.  Princes  a  pow  er er.  . er.  fa'  bond,  in  order  to  bring  abiott  ,  a  Instiug  pence,  and  to,  maintain  the  general  welfirre  and  security.  Soon  will  forcigtt  troop.;,-  in  strict  union  attack  the  common  enemy,.  brave  companion  , STYLE=superscript  .  in  arms  I  honour  and  support  them  yow  brot  hers  ;  nut  vain-glorious  filch  , STYLE=superscript  words,  but  manly  deeds  _do'  'honour  to  the  warrior  ;  'by  Intrevidity  before  .the  enemy  you  :hew  otirsel  NTS  to  ()Calle  first  soldiers.  •  Thus  Oro  shall  l'ono  tia7lead  you  hack  to  your  own  coun country,  try, country,  followed  hy  the  respe-el  of  the  enemy  ;  awl..  by  the  gratitude  of  foreign  nations,  after  hay  in?  . STYLE=superscript  :4!Curpl  kly.  your  &amp;inks  an  ho honottral.le  nottral.le honottral.le  peace,  w  lieu  the  .satisfoottion  of  our  :cloiturelt,  the  op opprohi.tion  prohi.tion opprohi.tion  of  the  woirld,  the  rev.itords  of  valkor,  the  of  roar  .feliow..citiZeni.,  and  +he  comeioustie”!  of  -ileser-qd  repose  await  P2_TB00019 and  thatthongh,our  Orders  •  .1-  , STYLE=superscript  ..!  , STYLE=superscript  ..s:  .  :  .  ,4ill  ultirnati  .40'4  c  ,  l  '24  1  4  , STYLE=superscript  4  1  . STYLE=superscript  ..&amp;  .  ‘•:  i  'c  liar  ?If,  i  1 STYLE=superscript  •  7- STYLE=superscript  7  dir_24  ,t.  i  ''  ..'  .  tln  m.t  !  •  W  I  •  •  ....  101  at':  to  . STYLE=superscript  4 STYLE=superscript  .'....  1 STYLE=superscript  84.1  ,  --  .  - STYLE=superscript  •%Y.1  .  •It  ..c  .  .  (Sine  f  orkgiit:hritilioulabe  tho  ,  P2_TB00020 of  a  counter  .  ----  --,,  •  .  .  whom  life  1,  dearer  than  bi  ts  and  our  honour:  ,Adorned  with  this  :ass,  and  com-  i  .  mails  of  tonne  esteem,  will  I  present  to  our  Sovereign,  to  the  . STYLE=superscript  iitors•  Eystem.  world,  those  tirave  men  wbo  have-  deserved  well  of  their  coun4i  pk,  have  had  try,  hod  b  whose  names  I  wai  ever  carry  in  my  -heart..  There  remains  one  cOnsideration,  which  1  mustput  you  in  sentiments  in  mind  of:  the  soldier  is  oily  formidable  to  the  enemy  in  arms  ;  civil  ;nit  of  such  an  virtues  must  not  be  strangers  to•him  :  out  of  the  lield  of  battle,  ~  4  •  towards  the  unarmed  citizen  and  peasants  he  is  moderate,  com-  the  immediate  passionate,  and  humane  :  he  knows  the  evils  of  war,  and  strives  it  advocate  for  •  to  lighten  them.  I  .  will  punish  every  ranton  excess  with  so  - STYLE=superscript  Ndalion  of  the  much  grea  ter  security,  as  it  is  not  the  intention  of  our  'Monarch  .•  •  14)  oppress  neighbouring  coontri  es.  but  td  deliver  them  from  ay  one  again  to  .their  oppres&amp;ors,  and  to•  farm  with  their.  Princes  a  pow  er-  bat  the,Ameri-  .rOi  bond,  in  order  to  bring  about  .  a  lasting  pence,  and  to,  maintain  the  general  welfare  and  security.  Soon  will  •  ( STYLE=superscript  -  .)11 STYLE=superscript  'Ls  sYikm)  foreign  troop.  4-  in  strict  union  . STYLE=superscript  ti;  iih  ',its,  attack  the  common  cal  r  e  g  e  nt  i  n  _  ,  evenly,  'Filet),  ()rase  comp:  atop..  in  artns  1  honour  and  support  them  ai  yo.Ur  brot  hers  ;  .  But  vain-glorious  high  , STYLE=superscript  words,  but  ,  le_etfret.  Manly  deeds  _do  bonout  to  the  warrior  ,  - STYLE=superscript  by  intrepidity  before  1:  , STYLE=superscript  -the  enemy  you  fillig  Alt,iV  otirsel  NTS  to  be  'the  iirt  soldiin  - STYLE=superscript  s.  .itieli  the  neccs-  •  Thus  Oro  shall  I•nne  tra....lend  you  hack  to  your  own  coon-  I  r  single  article,  try,  .folio  wed  hy  the  reqmet  4;f  the  (wow,  auct  .  by  tin:gratitude  ho-  -022  :  at  preAent,  of  foreign  nations,  after  hav  ink  . STYLE=superscript  :4ttiurpk  tly.  your  arnks  an  nottrahle  peace,  w  lieu  the  .sati4dction  of  our  :‘loitnrch,  the  ap-  •  n.l44hiV.;  .  4  . STYLE=superscript  e4111111  1 STYLE=superscript  ;  ;  probatioo  of  t  ti  c  wad&amp;  the  rewards  of  valkte,  the  blessing.:  of  It  .i  f  ,  ;verb  0  /1.  ,.  yokir  .feliow..vitizenr•r,  and  +he  consciousnet•s  of  -ilesettqd  repose  -  -  '•  ,  await  I  (to.  th  too  •.  •  .  .  ~,  .  •  1  ''  CILIRLI.;,:g,  A  iclidukerGeueralit  4 STYLE=superscript  illo.  .  .  !  -4—  •  ---,*  :47  I',  at  t!  - STYLE=superscript  .t:  0  `!1;•t.  (If  le:.  1'  .7,..  .  ,  -.I:ERAILY  A  I  . STYLE=superscript  '4DF  4  1  •  u.a4;  be;  hart  ,a.ti  •I.  ..  1 STYLE=superscript  4.1............  ..  .  .  1..  -  ,  ..  .  •-  -  •  .  •  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  APRIL  23.  EATRJOIIDLVA  Y  E  PTE.  Adnara(l  .  y;oci  ar  pril2l.  z STYLE=superscript  Sir  !tarry.  Neale,  E3art;l4'lrsce•-aptaiti  to  Admiral  Lord  Gam Gambier,  bier, Gambier,  Commander  in  Chief  of  his  Vlopsty's.ships  and  vese.els  em employed  ployed employed  in  ,the  Channel•SoundiagA,  &amp;c.:  artiNed  here  this  nitirring  with  a  disoaLth  from.  his  Lordship  to  the  Honourable  William  Wellesley_  'Pole,  Of..w  hich  the  •fitiloir  ingt  isizt•  copy  '  Citledin  a,'at  aiichar.  - STYLE=superscript  in  llasque'R,Oads,  Aprif  '14.  - STYLE=superscript  1809.  Sir—the  Almighty's  favoleto  his  Majesty  and  the''nation  has  heen.  ;  strongly  Marked  in  the  success  tie  has  been  pleased  to  ,  give  to  the  operation§lnf  - STYLE=superscript  his  Majesty's'  flectunder  my  'command  ;  and  in:iie'the  sari'sfactioo  to  Accpiaild  you,  for•thel  informa information  tion information  of  the  Lords  C'toviiii4sioners  of  the-Admiralty,Viat  the  four  ships  cx  the  emony  named  in  th,e  mktgin  *',  haie  beets  iletro3ed  tit  their  a,tnitorage  ;;and  'several  'Others,  from  11..  Ming  on  shore,  if  not  filtoirt.ther  un4ervieca.ble,  are,at  least,  diSabled  zs.  for  a  cowlide  table  tithe.  •  The  a  angement  of  the  fire  vessels  z  'placed  hotter  the  direction  of  Captain  the  !tight  1i  M.  made.ak  fully  as  Ow  state  of  the  .weather  wound  admits  hCeordiug  to  his  'Lord 'Lordski  ski 'Lordski  o's  plan  On  the  evenink  of  the  and  at'eight  o'clock  iii  the  'sitme  Itiey  prOceededfio  'the  attack,  under  a  favou  r-  Sibie  st  rung  w  Intl  fry  nothe  north4t  - STYLE=superscript  3tril,'  and'iloodLtidel,  preceded  by  some  ve•els  filled  Xvith  powder  add  shells,  4,  priiposed  by  his  Lordship,  With  a  view,  to  explosion,)  and  10  nn  in  the  mast  n:tdanated  'and  dcteimined  mantierby  Capt.'  Xi'  Aldridge,  in  the  Mediator  ,fire-ship,  the  •others.  following  hi  'itbcesssion;  .  but  e  - STYLE=superscript  %  - STYLE=superscript  hitt:lll44e  darlt.l)CSS  of  the  utght,  'several  mistOok  their  course,  and  On  their  approach  to  the  enemy's  ships,  ryas  discovered  that  boOm  (vas  '  61ae;31  . STYLE=superscript  to  iviint  of  tbvif  line  for  a  defence.  This,  hottevie'r,  the  weight  'of'the  illediattir  soon  broke,  and  the  usual  l'arevidity  and  bravery  •of  British  seamen  overcame  all  di  flicultte4.  AdVancing  untlii'r  a  hedvy  fire  from  the  forts  in  the  isle  of  Atii,  as  well  as  Itora  the  eticifiyVships,  most  of  which  cut  or  ca.Ve.s,Wnd  from  the  confined  anchorage,zot  on  shore,  ;old  thus  avoided  taking  fire.  1 STYLE=superscript  At  do)  -tight  the  folloWing  looming,  Lord.  Cochrane  corrimoni-  Cated  to  toe  by  telegraph,'  that  seven  tof'  thb  enemy'sships  wereem  -shore.  and  inigpt  ,be  deoroyed.  I  immediately  made  the  signal  for  t!u  fleet  unmoor  and  we  h  intending  .  to  proceed  with  it  to  eifeet  their  destruction:  The  wind,  however,  being  fresh  front'  the  itorthward,  and  th  flood-tide  runnityr,  rendered  it  too  kW/aMous  to  run  into  Afx  Itesails  - STYLE=superscript  (fresm  its  sham  water.),  *I  therefore  anchored  again  at  ihe',distauce  of  about  three  miles  from  the  forts  on  the  Island..  Xs  the  tide  suited,  the  enemy  evinced  great  activity  in  endea endeavouring  vouring endeavouring  to  warp  their  ships  (which  had  grounded)  into  deep  succeeded•  in  getting  all  but  five  of  the  line  towards  the  entrance  of  the  Charente  before  it  became'  Practicablf  to  attack  them.  gave  orders  to  Capt.  of  the  Valiant,  to  prOcced  with  that  ship.  the  Revenge,  frigates,  'bombs,  add  small  vessels,  named  in  the  margid+,  to  anchor  near  the,'  fidyrat  Shoal,'  in  te,olittess  for  thd  attack:''  At  tw  .minutes4aelf  two,  P.M.  Lord  Cochrane  advanced  int  he  linpleri'ense  vi!itli'ffl4  accustomed  gallantry  and  spirit,  and  opt.ned  a  well-direcwil  fire  upon  Ihe  C:ileutta,  hick  struck  her  colours  to  the  Infpericuse  ;  the  ships  litid  vessels  abovesoon  after  joined  in  the`  attack  upon  the  Ville  de  VarsoVie  mid  A  e  i  tlitin,  and'  before  five  o'clOck,  aftei  iistaioinga  heavy  cannonade,  iq  strike  their  colours,  when  they  f STYLE=superscript  werelaken  possession  'of,  by  the,  boats  of  the  advanced  squadron.  As  soon  as  the''',liil4tioers,.vr'cre  remit  ~-•t!.  they  were  set  on  tire,  as  was  also  the  1 STYLE=superscript  f  aelii,  if  short  ti.ot  , STYLE=superscript  •  , STYLE=superscript  ..•.eft-  •  ,tftt  r'by  t  he  'totem  y.  I  afterwards  detached  Rear7Adirai'llhOVWft.obert'St-o Rear7Adirai'llhOVWft.obert'St-o-.  . Rear7Adirai'llhOVWft.obert'St-o-.  ford,  in  the  C;esti  r,  with  iti  r  ,  three  ad.ti!i'oiiiiV(4l  l STYLE=superscript  eiii.,  (which  were  hastily  prepiiriK.ln.the  course  of„the  (+4)O  vilet4l;  the  boats  (if`tht±  fleet,  wild,  Sr.l  Congreve's  rocli.ets,..teWndoct  the  further  operations  of  1  Any  of  the  slit  lay  exposed  to  an  attack.  On  the  ;noiaiog  of  the  Otti  1,4  'Rettil  Admiral  reported  to  me,  that  as  the  eilt.4aE  Und  other  line  of  battle  ships  hadgrounded,  and  w  ere  in  a  dangerous  sitnAcisin,  he  thought  it  advisable  to  order  them  all'  nut,  particularly  qs.thv  *  Ville  de  •  Varsorvie,  of  80  guns  ;  Tonnerreyna  ;  A  quillon,  of  74  guns;  and  Calcutta,  or  36  trims.  •  •.  +  Indefatigable,-  Aigle,  Emerald,  Pit%ts,  :Beagle;  •  ,Etna  bomb,  Insolent  gun  brig,  Conflict,  • STYLE=superscript  Eneounte'r,  -FetVetilt,i  and  Growler  remaining  part  of  he  service  could  be  performed  by  fri;;ateK  anti  small  vessels  only  :  and  I  was  happy  to  find  that  they  were  et et'rimied  'rimied et'rimied  from  their  perilous  oititation.  Captain  Migh  has  since  informed  me,  that  it  was  found  im;-  praetieble  to  destroy  the  three  decked  ship,  and  the  others  which  were  laying  near  the  entrance  of  the  Clarenze,  as  the  former,  being  the  outer  one,  was  protected  by  three  lines  of  boats  placed  in  advance  from  her.  This  ship  and  all  the  others,  excs•pt  four  of  the  line  and  a  frigate,  have  now  moved  up  the  river  Charente.  If  any  further  attempt  to  destroy  them  is  practicable,  I  shall  not  fail  to  use  every  cacaos  in  my  power  to  accomplish  it.  I  have  great  satisfaction  in  stating  to  their  Lordships  ho*  much  I  feet  obliged  to  the  zealous  co-operations  of  Rear-Ad Rear-Admiral  miral Rear-Admiral  Stopford,  under  whose  arrangements  the  boats  of  tlie  fleet  were  placed  ;  and  1  must  also  express  to  their  Lordships  the  high  sense  I  have  of  the  assistance  I  received  from  the  abilities  and  unremitted  attention  of  Sir  harry  Neale.  Bart.  the  Captain  of  the  Fleet,  as  well  as  the  animated  exertions  of  the  captains  ;  officers,  seamen,  and  marines  tmder  my  command,  and  their  for forwardness  wardness forwardness  to  volunteer.upon.any  - STYLE=superscript  service  that  might  be  allotted  to  theta  ;  particularly  the  zeal  and  activity  shewn  by  the  captains  of  line  of  haple  ships  in  preparing  the  fire-vessels.  I  cannot  speak  in  sufficient  terms  of  admiration  and  applause  of.the  vigorous  and  gallant  attack  made  by  Lord  Cochrane  upon  the  French  line  of  battle  ships  which  were  on  shore,  as  well  A  for  his  judicious  manner  of  approaching  them.  and;  placing  hit  4b  l  ip  in  ;  the  position  most  advantageous  to  annoy  the  enemy,aha  preferve  his  own  ship  ;  which  could  not  be  exceeded  by  any  feat  of  vtOcur  hitherto  achieved.by  the  British  Navy.  •  It  is  due  to  Rear-Admiral  Stopford,  and  Sir  •  Harry  Neale;  that  1  should  here  take  the  opportunity  of  accitininiiug  theif  Lordships  of  the  handsome  and  earnest  !winner  in  which  boat  these  meritorious  officers  had  volunteered  their  services  before  the  arrival  of  Lord  Cochrane,  to  undertake  on  attack  upon  04  enemy  with  fire  ships  ;  and  that,  ,hod  not  their  Lordships  fixed  upon  him  to  conduct  the  enterprize,  I  have  full  confidence  that  the  result  of  their  efforts  would  have  been  highly  creditable  (.6  theta.  I  should  feel  that  I  did  net  do  justice  to  the  services  of  Capt.  Godfrey,  of  the  /Etna,  in  bombarding  the  enemy's  ships  on  th*  12th,  and  nearly  all  the  day  of  the  13th,  if  I  did  not  recommend  him.  to  their  Lordships'  notice.;  and  I  cannot  omit  hearing  due  testimony  to  the  anxious  desire  expressed  by  Mr.  Congrece  to.  he  employed  wherever  I  might  , STYLE=superscript  conceive  his  services  in  - STYLE=superscript  the  I  management  of  hi  3  rockets  would  be  useful  ;  some  of  theft  were.  placed  in  the  tire-ships  with  effect  ;  and  I  have  every  reason  to  he  saCsSed  with  the  artillerymen,  and  others,  who  had  the  management  of  them  under  Mr.  Congreve's  direction.  I  send  herewith  a  return  of  the  killed,  wounded,  and  mlssinf  s  of  the  fleet,  which,  1  am  happy  to  observe,  is  comparatively  •  •  small.  I  have  not  yet  received  the  returns  of  the  number  of  prisoners  taken,  but  I  conceive  they  amount  to  between  four  and  fi-..e  hundred.  I  have  charged  Sir  Harry  Neale  %;•1!h  this  dispatch  (by  the  Iraperieuse),  and  I  beg  ;rave  to  refer  their  Lordships  to  him,  as  also  to  Lord  Cochrane,  for  any  further  particulars  of  which  they  may  wish  to  he  infarnit  d.  I  have  the  honour  to  he,  &amp;c.  (Signed)  ••  -  •  •Ci  1  nntEn.  nth  Apati.  P..  S.  This  morning  t  ee  or  the  .eta-ml's  line  of  battle  ships  are  observed  to  be  still  on  shore  nailer  Vouras,  and  one  of  them  is  in  a  dangerous  One  of  frigates  (1011(14.1)11e)  also  011  shore,  ha;  f  111-n  o'ver,  and  the)  are  now  di-mantling  her.  As  the  tics  will  :At•  off  in  a  d.i).  or  1%%0,  there  is  every  probabilii)  that  she  w  ill  he  de,:  i•o  N  ed.  •iiiittee  writing  the  fore.7oin.g.  I  have  leornt  that  the  Honours Honoursbk.imen  bk.imen Honoursbk.imen  en:  l  nt-Colonel  Cochrane  (Lord  Coehrine's  brother)  and  i.ientennot  e?  the  Nav),  -  were  volunteers  in  the  Irope Iropeiioo,le,  iioo,le, Iropeiioo,le,  and  rendered  Ih:lv:elves  t  l STYLE=superscript  femely  ;  the  former  by  ebomnaddinr  some  of  her  guns  on  the  main  -deck,  and  the  latter  in  oinduet  hig  one  of  the  ex  pbrAon  ve,sels.  :Vanirs  of  the  ships  hi  .fix  Roads,  previous  to  the  attack  on  thi  11/b  Jp/P,  L'Oerart,  V  ire-Admiral  Allemande,  Capt.  Roland—  Repaired  in.  1-.06.  nn  shore  natter  I'auras.  Founroylnt,  o  w,  Itt'..llr-AdiiiirA'rwurdon,  caw.  ears  old  ;  nil  -.bore  under  niuras.  Cassard,  1-1  gaits,  Capt.  Faure,  Conitto4-  dare-Three  years  old,  on  shore  tinder  Fonras.  gans  l  Capt.  La  Caille--Old,  on  shore  in  the  river.  lte;:tilio.,  74  gnus,  Capt.  latea  , STYLE=superscript  —Five  Nears  oIA,  on  shore  tooter  Nl:oh  irei  Patrintei7:l  guns,  Captain  Mabee—  Itevaire,i  to  itifj.  P11_TB00008 I:  x"
