text
"JAN.  15.  hind,  whP  did  not  honour  Vienna,  nor  Berlin,  with  a  stay  pf  more  than  two  or  three  days,  remained  stationary  near  Madrid  at  least  seventeen  days  What  can  account  for  this  change  of  system  Z  ills  reputation,  battered  as  it  is  by  atrocities  and  falshqeds,  must,  neverthelesa  have  some  value  in  his  own  estimation  i  and  how  will  his  arrogant  liranity  he  able  to  support  the  sneers  and  sarcasms  of  his  fol followers,  lowers, followers,  who,  thoagh  they  wear  an  air  of  grave  composure  in  his  presence,  do  not  get  his  for  vaunted  promise  of  .  ,  tran tranquilizing  quilizing tranquilizing  Spain,  before  the  expiratioq  of  last  %ear.  NO  people  existing  are  fonder  of  a  laugh  than  the  French  soldiers  ;  and  they  indulge  themselves  cordially  at  the  ex expence  pence expence  of  the  mortified  liraggart.  A  stay  of  seventeen  days  near  Madrid!  It  is  astonishing  that  a  circumstance,  which  affords  so  much  matter  for  speculation,  has  been  noticed  by  none  of  our  coteipporaries.  Was  all  this  time  necessary  to  make  preparations  for  the  coronation  of  his  broi  her  ?  pc,  who  unites  in  his  own  persou  the  qualities  of  the  Sol Solthe  the Solthe  pontiff,  and  the  :_;7,  who  poFsesses  sn  many  pawned  and  pilfered  crowns  and  diad-ms,  who  inir,ht  have  been  accosted  with  the  s  to  the  ears  of  a  fcrocio.ls  1.1..:•  gro.ais  and  exe exeprations  prations exeprations  of  the  numerous  p.:,,oiation  cap,tal  t  I  did  not  want  so  much  time  tbs  . STYLE=superscript  preparations.  Tlo  simple  circumstance  undermines  OA.  whole  , STYLE=superscript  _!dinee  of  his  Bulletin,  artfully  construc:cd  as  it  is;  and  is,  in  our  judgment  the  most  convincing  pro,k  . STYLE=superscript  e  could  .-eceive,  Wit  he  is  himself  apprehensive  of  meeting  more  ditlicaltics  in  his  attempt  ti  subjugate  Spain,  than  his  admirers  in  this  coun country  try country  imagine.  With  an  . STYLE=superscript  army  of  60,00  U  men  before  Madrid,  and  we  have  his  own  statement  for  it,  he  remains  caressing  the  Zephyrs,  indulging  iq  the  pleasures  of  the  seaso  n, STYLE=superscript  en STYLE=superscript  ;  joying  the  fine  air  of  the  cquntry  ;  like  another  CNC%  it,  rio rioting  ting rioting  in  the  arms  of  a  CLEOP  ATRA, STYLE=superscript  he STYLE=superscript  risks  the  conquest  of  Spain,  to  enjoy  the  fine  weather  in  the  neigbourhood  of  the  capital,  Unaccountable  indeed  f  He  has  either  received  alarming  intelligence  from  his  agents  at  Vienna;  or  the  in.  habitants  of  Madrid  coutigue  to  display  an  heroism,  an  un ungovernable  governable ungovernable  hatred  and  resistance,  that  he  dares  undertake  nothing  of  importance  against  the  Eastern  and  Southern  frovinces,  as  long  as  these  symptoms  continue.  The  Euraaoa  has  given  the  army  some  da)s  rest  Ile  is  grown  excessively  humane  of  late.  in  the  blake  climate  of  the  North,  he  did  not  feel  so  much  compassion  for  the  sufferings  of  his  soldiers,  who,  after  the  battle  of  Jena,  were  obliged  to  march  incessantly,  in  pursuit  of  the  Prosian  fugitives,  under  Prince  Hon  ent.oup:,  and  Ge General  neral General  &amp;MOW.  There  was  no  rest  allowed  those  poor  wrotelant  at  that  time  ;  they  were  - STYLE=superscript  forced,  in  the  most  tempestuous  weather,  to  wade  up  to  their  knee%  in  mud  d  ,  through  the  almost  impassable  roads  of  Pomerania  an  lieckkn'burr,  till  they  reached  Lubeck.  if  celerity  of  operation  was  at  that  time  advisable,  it  is  become  im imriously  riously imriously  urgent  at  present,  when  every  day  gives  a  new  augmentation  of  strength  and  con  fi  dence  to  the  po poisolation  isolation poisolation  of  the  South  and  East.dis  it  is  of  the  itighest  importance  to  obtain  tinct  information  on  this  head.  The  Bulletins  are  exclusively  composed  for  our  perusal,  and  that  of  the  Court  of  Viennait  would  be  more  than  good  nature,  if  we  trusted  for  intelli intelligence  gence intelligence  to  these  documents.  Notwithstanding  the  affected  fonehalance,  with  which  which  they  are  dictated,  it  is  easy,  on  an  attentive  examination  of  their  respective  con contests,  tests, contests,  and  on  comparing  a  number  of  circumstanc4as,  to  per.-  ceive  that  they  ace  a  comp  olition STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  falsehood,  bombast,"
