text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  'lt  POPULAR,  PREACHERS.  No.  XXI.  'Tis  pitiful  To  court  a  grin,  when  you  should  woo  a  soul;  To  break  a  jest,  when  pity  should  inspire  Pathetic  exhortation;  and  to  address  The  skittish  fancy  with  facetious  tales,  When  sent  with  Gun's  Cou►iuissiou  W  the  lioart  !  COW  PI:R.  IMP.  ROWLAND  HILL,  M.  A.  U!  SURRY  CH'  SM.  'WISDOM  assures  us  there  is  a  time  for  every  thing.  I  wish,  therelorc,  that  it.  had  fallen  to  my  tot  to  characte characterise  rise characterise  the  It  KV.  HOWLAN  I)  HILL  when  he  was  1119  EC  to  listen  to  the  sug.restions  of  observation,  and  more  able  to  sustain  critictl  ;  when  years  neither  impaired  his  strength  nor  confirmed  his  opinions,  and  when  family  be bereavements  reavements bereavements  k  n  not  particularly  atfected  his  feelings.  I  *ay  this  unfeignedly.  As  a  clergyman,  I  may  disapprove  of  Mr.  HA;  but  I  an%  induced  to  respect  his  private  con conduct,  duct, conduct,  and  to  honour  his  social  benevolence,  The  events  of  Mr.  are  too  well  known  to  re rewire  wire rewire  to  be  particularly  detailed  on  this  occasion.  His  lineal  descent  is  highly  respectable;  and  he  was  placed,  at  the  proper  age,  in  trainiug  for  the  Christian  ministry,  agreeably  to  the  discipline  of  the  established  church  of  these  kingdonis.  lie  soon  betrayed,  however,  an  attach attachment  ment attachment  for  v  hat.  was  then  generally  stigmatised  as  methodism.  revolted  from  the  system  for  which  he  had  been  intend intended  ed intended  ;  and,  by  this  dorilectioa,  incurred  so  much  the  displea displeasure  sure displeasure  of  his  relations,  that  we  are  informed,  in  Mr.  Jay's  of  the  Rev.  Cornelius,  Winter,  he  heCame,  at  one  pe period  riod period  of  his  career,  a  distressed  gentl,eanan  Olte  InOves  which  induce  d  him  to  schism  wereclearly  con conscientions,  scientions, conscientions,  or  whether  he  only  preferred  perwa.7%-ut  popu popularity  larity popularity  to  present  property,  forms  no  part  of  our  immedi immediate  ate immediate  investigation,  He  as  it  was  then  consider consider•  • consider•  for  righteousness  sake  which.  let  it  here  be  can can•  • can•  e:enuoted,  ofVers  no  trivial  evidence  M  favour  of  his  slucerity.  I  do  not  deem  it  essential,  to  the  purposes  of  this  issquiry,  to  ascertain  exim,i-tly  yvhcii  thc,  Rev.  hovlaud  Hill  first  erected  his,  IteMnd  as  his.  place  of  wor worship  ship worship  hied  been  not  unaptly•  called  ;  uor  dot  think  it  at  ail  necessary  to  exhibit,  were  it  in  my  power  to  procure,  oue,  an  intelligible  schedule  of  the  ticketed  seats  of  Sorry  as  the  said  hound  is  evangeli evangelically  cally evangelically  described.  Speculation  is  not  the  business  of  the  pre present  sent present  ilvquiry.  I  imagine;  however,  that  Surry  Chapel  will  not  always  coat  vine  so  profit:Able!  unto  all  as  it  may  bitiicrto  have  proved.  Novelty,  ceases  to  attract  its  crowds  to  this  evangelical  octagon;,  ancl  the  par.  :  gar'  influence  of  its  l'ountler  whe,m  there  wi,ll  not  soon  ►  found  :in  adequate  substitute,  is  now  rapidty  Like  'the  late  Mr.  Menton,  there  is  reason  . STYLE=superscript  to.  apprehend  that  31r.  Hill  inav  outprfach,  if  not'aiso  outlive,  himself  t  Santilenvience,  or.  the  elogneiace  f  the  pulpit,  is  of  so  little  value  in  the  Judgment  of  this  celebrated  Preacher,  that  it  is  not  to  be  suppo  l STYLE=superscript  /  2  ed  he  will  pay  the  least  degree  of  attention  to  anv  observations  of  mine  on  his  orato  F  ical  qualifications.  What  1  shall  remark,  therefore,  can  only  benefit  those  who  may  wish  to  avoid  the  errors  which  so  evidently  belong  to  his  system  of  preaching.  0(  the  .gyle  of  singing  early  adopted  and  still  practised  in  his  chapel,  it  mug  with  justice  be  asserted,  in  the  versification  .  o  Pope,  flat  The  liTeQsiog  thrills  through  alt  th  e  ,  laboring  throng;,  And  lleaven_is  won  b3—Violence  of  Song!  p.  crimp.  it  is  owing  to  this  violence  of  as  the  poet  by  anticipation  described  it,  that  Mr.  Hill  is  so  sensi sensi'Me  'Me sensi'Me  azitated  when  he  enters  his  pulpit,  and  first  surveys,  in  all  directions,  his  surrounding  congregation  ;  frequently  dcwoustratiug,  dun);  this  periud,  by  alternate  moyeturts  •  t  JAN.  1.  of  the  hand  or  arm,  how  properly  his  mind  is  then  engaged  in  imploring  blessings  on  the  people  t  Notwithstanding  this  display  of  pious  prcciiion,  there  is,  in  this  preacher,  a  neg negligence  ligence negligence  degenerating  into  slovenliness.  Decorum  really  becomes  the  pulpit.  It  is  painful,  it  is  worse  than  - STYLE=superscript  painful,  to  sec  a  divine,  so  placed,  turn  his  back,  the  instalit  he  has  finished  his  prayer,  on  the  hearers;  then,  having  pulled  his  robes  into  order,  upon  his  cushion,  rub  his  fate,  feelihis  mouth,  and  pi  ck  his  hose,  These  things  are  not  to  be  tolerated,  Mr.  ma  gives  his  text  very  indistiactty,  and  almost  inaudibly.  The  character  of  his  discoerses  is  generally  known;—sameness  in  substance,  incoherent  in  arrange.  meat,  whimsical  in  illustration,  commonly  colloquial  iR  language,  and  abounding  in  strange  flights  of  fancy,  and  apt  but  homourous  stories.  He  absolutely  tabours  for  his  metaphors;  and,  in  his  zeal  to  lower  himself  to  what  he  conceives  to  be  the  or  of  his  audi audience,  ence, audience,  he  constantly  mistakes  - STYLE=superscript  vulgarity  for  simplicity.—  Let  us  try,  from  memory,  some  of  those  passages  by  which  Mr.  Hill's  sermons  are  distinguished.  He  invariably  professes  a  holy  hatred  againet  play-Nausea.  \o  man,  indeed  would  go  to  a  exclaimed  Mr.  11  ,  he  supposed  it  would  be  burnt  down  [mach  smiling  on  the  part  of  those  who  heard  this,  and  who  did  not  mistake  his  neat  allusion  to  the  conflagration  in  a  certain  part  of  Corent  Garden  !]  or  else  fall  down  while  he  was  there  It  is,  I  believe,  equally  notorious,  tbat  Mr..  Hill  feels  no  great  affection  for  the  established  Clergy  of  the  Church  of  Sea  t  tle  he  lately  signi significantly  ficantly significantly  observed  to  his  hearers,  had  need  he  Doctors  e  Divinity  [he  meant  nothing  uncourteous,  let  uncharitably  think,  towards  Doctor  (Shyer]  in  order  to  carry  their  non*  sense  down  He  shortly  after  declared,  however,  by  way  of  concession  to,  or  compromise  with,  other  clergymen,  I  don't  blame  those  who  must  preach  bad  sermons,  if  they  read  good  ones;  for  it  is  certainly  better-to  read  good  ones  of  other  people's,  than  to  preach  bad  ernes  of  their  He,  then,  by  no  unnatural  transition,  began  to  descant  o  Village  PFcaebing  ;  and  preferred,  for  this  evangelical  men  with  less  learning-  in  their  heads  than  prase  in  their  to  all  the  dignified  divines  in  existence.--  I  should  only  spoil  his  description  of  these  Pillage  Mission..  cries,  whose  tabours  are  so  piously  seconded  by  the  money  to  record  Mr.  Ifitl's  strong  similie  for  begging,  frmn  the  London  were  iii  attempted  by  meta  retrace  it  on.  paper.  When  other  giik?y  fellows  are  settio'ng  out  in  their  whiskeys,  sabbatb  after  sabbaib,  then  it  is  that  these  simple  souls,  the  Village  Missionaries  of  the  Loadoa  Itinerant  start  foe  the  evangelizing  work  and,  as  ,Mr.  llirremarketh,  what  a  comfortable  employment  it  is  for  young  men  While  others  are  spending  money,  these  are  saving  it  a  and,  white  others  are  whiskeying  along  the  brood  way  that  leadeth  to  destruction  i  these  are  socially  trotting,  two  by  two,  the  norrow  path  that  must  i*vitahly  kart  to  blessed blessedness  ness blessedness  I  So,  at  least,  Mr.  Ilill'Assures  in  not  a  most  admirable  recruitin-serjeant,  is  the  service  of  the  evan evangelical  gelical evangelical  -  Mr.  Hill's  talent  at  exciting.  serious  merriment  i  able.  'tie  does  not  content  hies  elf  with  standir4.  014.  low  ground  qf  nor  dyes  he  1041  g  settle,  on  the  high  ground  but  alights,.  from  Ls,  ultuost  spiritual  altitude,  and  condesceads  to  notice  the  great  difference  there  is  between  getting  over  things  anti  getting  into,  things  between  preachii  evangelically,  aud  de declaiming,  claiming, declaiming,  in  - STYLE=superscript  the  style  of  common  preachers,  tike  the  or  the  Here,  in indeed,  deed, indeed,  it  was  that  Mr.  Hill,  much  as  he  affects,  to  decry  oratory  in  others,  was  himself  completely  oratorical  mouthed  the  supposed  sounding  brass;  and,  like  those  pro.  Pane  girls  who  play  the  triangle  throagh  the  streets  of  our  metropolis,  he  most  skilfully  imitated,  by  the  Inetionin  ji  tigers,  the  nature  of  the  tin  kit  m  hal.  I  ant  said  Mr.  Hill,  that  *hut  they  ea  cotrt-  TormitiQn„  and  the  rest  of  ris  k  clues  more  hap  thaw  P12_TB00015 •  •  I  •  11%.  tWe  z!I  WY  I  1  •  •  •  4  P12_TB00016 MOIR"
