text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  sources  of  this  contagion  in  society.  We  perceive  effects,  but  we  do  not  explore  cruces.  We  punish  the  sinner,  without  taking  any  trouble  to  remove  the  sin.  Does  it  never  occur  to  our  reasoners  on  adultery,  or  have  they  omitted  to  observe  it,  that,  in  nine  cases  of  ten,  as  the  discussion  respects  fashionable  society,  adultery  is  the  consequence  of  improper  marriages  ?  Nature  is  not  to  be  counteracted.  Emotions  native  to  the  human  feelings,  born  of  the  heart,  may  be  stifled,  for  some  time,  but  they  mill,  if  their  causes  recur,  eventually  set  all  dicipline  at  defiance.  It  is  vain,  perhaps  the  worst  of  folly,  to  oppose  artificial  distinctions  to  natural  sensations.  The  question  of  adultery,  with  reference  to  society  generally,  is  not  very  difficult.  (t  reat  people  can  act;  middling  people  would  act  ;  lower  people  do  not  act.  Look  at  facts,  The  higher  or orders  ders orders  are  often  married  by  compulsion,  the  middling  orders  often  marry  from  what  is  called  prudence  '  but  the  lower  or orders  ders orders  marry  themselves.  Man  t  a  lk  s  o  f  the  girl  of  the  heart,  but  forgets  that  woman  has  also  the  man  of  the  t.  If,  nevertheless,  we  must  persevere  in  the  old  way,  if  we  must  punish  instead  of  prevent  offences,  might  it  not  he  eligible  to  make  adultery  liable  to  the  exhibition  of  the  pillory  3  I  can  conceive  no  spectacle  so  really  amusing,  pelting  forbid,  as  would  be  two  dears,  coupled  in  board  as  in  bed,  with  their  joint  heads  popping  up  through  the  in•  terstices  of  such  an  instrument  !—llow  truly  affecting  would  be  the  gazings  of  the  fond  pair;  now  obli►luely  ;Lino-  TOUS  towards  each  other,  and  now  languishingly  directing  their  contemplatio:►s  on  the  surrounding  multitude  !  !  1  fi figure  gure figure  them  to  my  self;  I  am  delighted  by  anticipation.  March  10,  1809.  HOMO,  IMPERIAL  PARLIAMENT.  HOUSE  OF  LORDS.  Tuesday,  .Ifurch  7.  Th►'  Irish  Distilleries,  the  Spirit  Import  Prohibition,  and  the  Irish  Bank  Note  Bills.  were  read  a  third  titne.—Adjourned.  Monday,  March  6.  The  Bill  I'm-sit:pending  the  Act  respecting  the  Irish  Distilleries,  Rld  the  Bin  Cor  more  rare;  v  preventing  I..'orgeries  on  the  Rink  of'  England,  pa,sed  through  the  Conunittee.—Adjourned.  Thursday,  March  8.  The  Earl  of  Montt  observed,  that  amongst  the  Papers  on  the  table  respecting  Spain,  there  was  a  dispatch  from  Lord  Castle Castlereagh  reagh Castlereagh  to  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley,  dated  the  15th  of,  u:y,  referring  SA)  another  dispatch  from  the  Secretary  of  State  to  Sir  Hew  Dal Dalrymple,  rymple, Dalrymple,  which  it  appeared  from  the  allusion  made  to  it,  stated  that  a  request  had  been  made  by  the  Council  of  Seville  for  the  aid  of  British  troops,  and  that  an  authority  had  been  given  to  Sir  Hew  Dalrymple,  then  Governor  of  Gibraltar,  to  give  a  pledge  that  10,000  British  troop,  should  be  sent  to  their  assist assistance.  ance. assistance.  This  dispatch  to  Sir  hew  Dalrymple  did  not  appear  on  the  table,  and  he  wished  to  know,  if  it  was  amongst  the  Papers  still  remaining  to  be  presented,  or  if  any  objection  existed  to  produce  it  ?  The  Earl  of  Ltv  nit  POOL  observed,  that  the  dispatch  rererred  to  transactions  antecedent  to  the  events  in  Spain,  Ivh:ch  had  be  col.h!  matter  of  notoriety,  and  that  way  probably  the  reason  it  was  mit  produced;  he  would,  however,  look  into  it,  and  lay  it  upon  the  table,  or  at  least  so  much  of  it  as  could  he  made  public,  if  there  wa.s  . STYLE=superscript  any  part  of  it  that  required  secrecy.—Adjourned.  LOUSE  OF  COMMONS.  Monday,  March  6.  CONCILIATION  WITH  AMERICA.  Mr.  Wismar:an  now  rose  to  make  the  Motion  of  which  he  had  given  such  frequent  previous  He  spoke  in  sub substance  stance substance  as  follows  :—Whilst  I  am  plea,  ►og  the  cause  of  right,  and  therefore  the  cause,  the  concerns  of  all  nations,  let  me  not  be  accused  with  wanting  a  due  feeling  for  my  own  country,  with  pleading  the  cause  of  the  stranger  or  the  enemy  against  oarselves.  Truth,  honesty,  and  fair  dealing,  are  the  common  cause  of  all  nations;  and  when  I  plead  that  my  country  should  act  rightly,  and  that  it  should  act  honestly,  I  neces necessarily  sarily necessarily  plead,  at  the  same  time,  its  true  and  genuine  in interests.  terests. interests.  Never  can  1  take  the  part  even  of  my  Country  against  what  is  right,  because  never  can  I  coercive  the  true  interests  of  my  country  advanced,  by  departing  from  such  line'  of  rectitude.  The  result  of  the  whole  system  has  verified  my  pre prediction,  diction, prediction,  but  I  owe  it  to  my  Honourable  Friends  to  mention,  by  the  way,  that  in  the  Order  of  the  7th  of  January  they  had  on  idea  of  the  extent  which  a  subsequent  Ministry  would  give  to.  this  act—they  had  no  possible  idea,  that  what  was  meant  as  an  experiment  would  be  adopted  as  an  approved  precedent,  that  an  exception  to  their  general  policy  would  be  pleaded  as  a  rule,  and  that  they  would  be  thus  interpreted  into  what  they  would  never  have  intended.  Had  the  Continent  taken  arms  against  Bonaparte  ?  Had  the  soldiers  refused  to  march,  because  they  wanted  coffee  and  sugar  for  breakfast  ?  And  as  to  Ame America,  rica, America,  how  had  America  taken  it  ?  Had  she  pocketed  the  af•  front  as  predicted  by  the  Right  Honourable  Gentleman  ?  No  I  for  no  sooner  had  intelligence  of  the  Orders  reached  America,  than  the  American  Government  expressed  their  opinion  of  them.  From  these  considerations,  Sir,  I  say  that  the  Ministers  would  have  done  well  had  they  paused  to  revise  their  own  acts,  had  they  acted  under  their  experience,  and  become  wise  hy  the  effects  of  their  errors.  The  point  of  truth  is,  that  our  Government  had  not  the  due  spirit  of  conciliation.  They  had  disavowed  the  act  of  Admiral  Berkley,  but  they  had  not  reprimanded  him.  He  had,  indeed,  been  recalled  from  that  station  ;  but,  as  if  to  shew  that  he  bad  not  lost  the  confidence  of  Ministers,  and  that  they  did  not  blame  the  spirit,  though  they  could  not  justify  the  act,  he  was  ostentatiously  sent  out  on  another  service,  as  soon  as  he  had  returned  from  the  American  station.  If  the  war  goes  on,  can  we  expect  to  retain  Canada,  or  even  our  insular  possessions  in  the  West  Indies  ?  It  would  be  a  war  ruinous  on  its  result,  and  would  he  productive  of  the  most  calamitous  consequences.  The;  hole  world  would  he  against  us,  and  we  should  scarcely  have  :t  resource  to  apply  to.  We  should  recollect  the  millions  of  debt  which  our  merchants  are  unable  to  recoverirom  America,  and  the  incalculable  losses  they  sustain  from  the  suspension  of  their  intercourse  with  that  country.  The  Honourable  Member  concluded  by  moving,  That  an  humble  Address  be  present presented  ed presented  to  his  Majesty,  representing,  that  in  consequence  of  the  passing  of  a  Decree  at  Berlin,  and  the  alledged  acquiescence  of  America  in  the  said  Decree,  his  Majesty  has  been  pleased  to  issue  his  Order  in  Council,  relative  to  the  said  Decree,  and  that  the  said  Orders  were  followed  up  by  certain  acts  (luring  the  en ensuing  suing ensuing  session  of  Parliament,  in  which  a  power  was  reserved  to  his  Majesty  of  annulling  the  said  Orders  if  it  should  be  conceiv conceived  ed conceived  expedient.  That  in  consequence  of  such  Orders  in  Council,  the  Congress  of  America  conceiving  they  interfered  with  their  interests,  anti  exposed  their  system  to  such  innovations  as  they  did  not  think  were  consistent  with  their  views,  they  parsed  a  law  laying  an  embargo  on  all  American  ships  in  their  own  ports,  at  the  same  time  offering,  that  if  we  would  rescind  our  Orders  in  Counci!,  that  we  should  have  the  exclusive  commerce  of  that  country,  by  which  means,  our  interests,  in  other  respects,  would  he  essentially  improved  ;  that  this  offer,  so  just  in  principle,  and  in  tendency  so  highly  advantageous  to  Great  Britain,  we  believe  and  hope  k  still  open  for  hi:  Majesty  to  receive.  That  the  con continuance  tinuance continuance  of  the  Embargo,  is  manifestly  injurious  to  this  country  and  to  our  commercial  interests  ;  most  humbly  praying  that  his  Majesty  will  be  graciously  pleased  to  adopt  such  measures  113  may  open  a  course,  and  by  a  temperate  and  judicious  negociation  lead  to  a  decision,  conducive  to  the  interests  and  welfare  of  his  Majssty's  subjects.  S':EPIIEN  said  the  lion.  Member  had  deprecated,.  amongst  (,ther  things,  the  attributing  to  him  a  want  of  zeal  towards  the  interests  of  his  country,  but  he  begged  to  assure  him  that  instead  of  any  such  character  or  sentiment  prevailing  in  his  mind,  he  Lad  the  unfeigned  homage  of  his  heart  ;  he  was  per perfectly  fectly perfectly  as:tired  of  the  manly  and  hnno►irable  principles  which  actuated  the  Houourable  ;Icanber,  and  he  believed  that  there  P4_TB00015 .  :.•  m--  fectly  assured  o  f  th  e  maul.  and  honoarithle  principles  which  4  /  L  '7  1 STYLE=superscript  7  91 STYLE=superscript  4.  r•  ,  N  4.  actuated  the  Honourable  'lcinber,  and  he  believed  that  there  In  a  Comm;  '  A  L  l STYLE=superscript  'h.  , STYLE=superscript  .  ‘..,  .  4,.4.  , STYLE=superscript  f.  e  Chancellor  of  the  was  not  in  the  Howe,  or  the.:  country,  a  heart  composed  of  a  more  Excheq  er  f  i  k  v STYLE=superscript  .  fl  y  *  vr STYLE=superscript  TaITIT STYLE=superscript  '  '  'lt:*  Vl STYLE=superscript  ‘  l. STYLE=superscript  •  '  Exchequer  Bills  he  truly  British  texture  tlicit  that  of  the  Ho:mumble  Gentleman.  p  r  r•  -  '  •  7 STYLE=superscript  #*  N  .  \‘'.  '  1 STYLE=superscript  •  '  ear  )  gad  on  the  le.=  file  lion.  Gentleman  had  branched  into  various  line=  of  argu-  fouled STYLE=superscript  ( STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  sN  '  •  .  r''.  4 STYLE=superscript  ,  ..,r  e  •1  i  in  i  4  iecifie  ab  .  -  ...t  ~  1  , STYLE=superscript  .  0(  1  ~.  c.  .  -  Went  )  but  he  bad  not,  ' STYLE=superscript  in  ' STYLE=superscript  an  one  libiallee  )  preserved  that  dir  ect  . STYLE=superscript  1 STYLE=superscript  .;  •  -  JO  ,  \%.',  '  .....-  ...*  •  •  4.  .  - STYLE=superscript  1.  , STYLE=superscript  ...  v.i.  .  -•  .  .  •  -.T.,-  fr.  7.  ...  •  C  %  :  •  •  ~.,..-f  .  ,  ....  P  661  ii-  ,  -  •••  •  r"
