text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  Is  it  fact,  Stadant,  that  our  Leviathan  of  always  remembrring  hint-elf,  did,  from  his  present  sense  of  •  royal  once  so  now  orthH  y  extended.  to  him,  ander anderta..e  ta..e anderta..e  to  negociate  all  difficulties  heiween  you  and  Royalty  ---Cood  man  !he  was  not  always  so  loyally  tensible  to  royal  Thus,  nevertheless,  it  is;  and,  to  say  truth.,  as  the  •  Polite  Philosopher,'  long  since  said,  Patriotisrh,  properly  so  called,  is,  perhaps,  as  scarce  in  this  age  as  in  any  that  has  Four  hefore.us.  Men  appear  to  love  themselves  so  well,  that  st  stems  not  altogether  °credible  they  should,  at  every  turn,  pre.  ter  their  country  s  iaterett  to  their  If  my  information  he  authentic,  it  was  intended,  Madam,  far  and  wide,  to  ha%e  moved  a  vote  of  thanks  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  as  naturally  tuppiementary  to  similar  proceedings  in  favour  of  111  r.  ‘Vardle.  ,  It  was  your  merit  to  have  really  produced  those  letters,  with  which  he  bad  meiely  the  honour  of  running  •away.  Instead  . STYLE=superscript  ..of  waiting  for  avute  of  thanks,  however,  you  have  taken  a  vote  of  supply  ;  preferring,  sagely  enough,  stolid  remuneration  before  empty  commendation.  1  leaVe  you  to  the  c:ljoy  meat  of  your  choice.  Take  the  for  your  arms;  and  for  your  mono,  as  s.  our  royal  lower  sends,'  Never  The  mntio  will  always  remind  you  of  his  original  attarnmept,  and  the  eats  obis  ultimate  munificence  !  April  IS,  1509.  •  Itcisto.  Homo  ,nimself  honoured  by  the  receipt  of  - STYLE=superscript  several  scur scurrilous  rilous scurrilous  animaAversions,  called  letttos,  on  his  various  writings.  being  the  slave  of  no  opinion,  nor  the  tool  of  . STYLE=superscript  ..any  party,  he,  a,  a  public  writer,  was  premed  to  encounter  all  parties  in  tne  discharge  of  his  public  dutfres:  Party  is  the  disease  of  our  natio')  W  letherAi*  effora,  will  succeed,  it  is  not  for  hint  to  prejutl,,e  ;  hut  his  piled,  ;good  or  bad,  successful  or  succeSs succeSs-1  -1 succeSs-1  is  yet  out  in  vowesi  st  ,.  asestsi  -  .  TO  OWL  SU3SABLIO  AND  TiH.,  PUBLIC.  A  Portrait  of  kis  Royal  HigHne  ss  the  DUKE  of  KENT,  engraved  by  kiaIPEN,  from  a  Picture  by  Edridge;  in  the  pok.:st-  , STYLE=superscript  .  , STYLE=superscript  •i0n  of  the  Prtneess  of  Amelia,  will  be  delivered  GRATIS,  ;;T.IN  DAY  N  EXT.  The  Proprietors  of  The  IVOinnal  Register  have  learned  with  the  utmost  regr,et,  that  maa  N  of  its  Readers  have  been  deprived  of  recei%  ing  the  Portraits  whirls  stave  been  delivered  GfiATIS.  it  must  be  obvious  that  the  Proprietors  arc.anxious  that  no  disap disapp9intrnents  p9intrnents disapp9intrnents  should  occur—the  object  Of  presenting  the  I.  l STYLE=superscript  l:bitt.  w:t%  Portrait,  of  the  Royal  Funtilg  is  to  increase  the  circalation  of  Me  National  Regisigr,  eonseq  - STYLE=superscript  ueatly  Subscribers  must  he  onvineed  that  the  greatest  care  has  been  observed  in  the  di:.  iribution  of  the  Prints.  Immediate  Orders  should  he  gent  to  the  Office,  11,  Catherine-  Etreet,  Strand  ;  or  given  to  the  Ni,ewsmen.  •  Tli  E  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  :SI7NDAY,  APRIL  DI,  1869.  ?OLITIC4L  EA'B.V.VS  or  THE  frErt.  ~..  ............:.-  'the  Iris  hat  arriveil  from  Li;ihon  with  diipatelies  for  overnment;  and  11;is  htought  private  letters  to  the  4th  Ust.  .The  latter  contain  very  diSatzreeaide  intelligence.  t  appears  thlt  the  enemy  entered  Oporto,  on  the  4 STYLE=superscript  29th.  ilit.  and  hound  no  serious  reiistance.  ,They  made  their  tirs:  Well-311re  before  that  city  on  the  27th  when  the  people  expressed  their  s!roni.eSt  determinaiion  to  deleud  them themtebeis  tebeis themtebeis  to  the  l  ist  extremity.  But  w  hen  their  spirit  was  put  ,to  (he  proof,  they  opposed  none,  or  comparatively  pile  yes'sJa:.ce,  to  the  enemy'.  They  diitinguished  I)(iwever,  ine  firfit,,  glow  of  . STYLE=superscript  their  enthusiasm;  on  the  tipproatli  ,  Of,  the  C  emy,  by  the  murder  of  several  e  .  ilicer2,  wh  o  otsn  they  suspected  ilf  like-  warmness  or  treach treachery..  ery.. treachery..  They  .  broke  orn,  in  the  mea  n  time',  the  prisons,  !flicted  irinmiry  punishin  nt  on  some  who  were  confined  ih  , STYLE=superscript  :re't  and  let  loose  a  number  of  criminals.  The  ex-'  li,l.ll:iims  I,d  eva  .  r.ple  of  the  Bishop  of  Opoiio  were  log  ~  .  :lit  ilic  lieBpfe  of  OPorttio;....TlieOtirieudered  as  idoh  at  APR  T  16.  •  serious  denionitrations  were  made  by  the  enemy  to  hazard  an  assault..  We  feel  great  pleasure  . STYLE=superscript  in  being  able  to  an announce  nounce announce  that  the  worthy  prelate  has  effected  his  escape,  to  Coimbra,  where  he  was  at  the  date  of  the  last  accounts:  How  unlike  the  Saragossans  are  the.  blustering  rabble  of  Oporto  I  We  insert  the  following  letter.  Aral',  3.—.!  avail  Myself  of  the  Iris  going  to  Eng-,  land,  to  let  you  know  that  we  have  taken  our  passage  in  the  Wallinghatn  packet,  expected  to  sail  in  the  course  of  the  week.  The  retL  , STYLE=superscript  .on  of  my  adopting  this  resolution  is,  that  I  consider  the  fate  of  this  country  drawing  near;  and  I  fear  that  this  city  will  be  very  soon  involved  In  the  same  calamity,  as  Oporto.  TII  French  first  appeared  before  that  place  on  the  27th  ult.  but  made  no  serious  attack  tilt  the  29th,  hen  about  9,001  entered  it,  with  scarcely  any  resistance,  the  armed  populace  Hs  ing  before  theta  in  all  directions.  They  would  find  about  200  pieces  of  artillery;  Much  of  which  is  brass,  and  an  immense  hoot,  for  the  bar  havinn  been  had,  no  ship  had  been  able  to  sail  ;  ,consequently  all  the  shipping  (arming  which  were  Ifi  English  vessels,  almost  all  !raided)  has  fallen  into  their.  hands.  It  is  not  in  my  power  to  give  the  Particulars  of  (hit  affair,  as  I  believe  no  one  h.  n  arrived  here  since  the  French  took  pessession  of  that  place;  lint  the  circutip.  stances  w  hich...occurfed,prev  Musty  to  their  arrival  are  horrible  in  the  ex  ti-erne.  On  the  'list,  the  molt  +  murdered  JO  AC  Di  Cu  NM  A,  of  Hadeninka,  Major  of  the  2d  regiment  ;  and  on  the  22d,  they  went  in  the  prison,  where  they  dragged  Loilt  I  01.1  v  uta.A  out  of  his  bed,  and  instantly  dispatched  hint  witli  kniVes;  fourteeu  others  . STYLE=superscript  ,  w  -.6  were  confined  there  on  suspicion  of  being  attached  to  the  French,  were  shift;  the  dead  hodle'  were  drawn  in  triumph  through  the  streets,  across  the  litidgeond  then  thrown  into  the  river.  After  IC.ving  wreaked  their  ve  n  .  seance  on  these  unfortunate  wretches,  th  e  mob  thro  w  open  the  prison  duties,  awl  released  all  the  prisoners  w  ithou,t  exception;  consequently  those  nefarious  Villains  are  again  let  loose  on  the  public.  it  is  reported  here,  that  the  French  have  about  20400  men  in  the  Neirth  of  Portugal,  and  v  e  expect  that  General  V  TCTO:t,  who  lu:s  un  , STYLE=superscript  toubteilly  gained  a  corhplete  victory  over  CcesTA,  will  cutter  I=6l-tug:ll  by  A  lcantara,  with  an  army  of  1  SA,OOO  men  ;  there  ;5.  besides,  a  force  of  'TOW  at  Salamanca.  therefore  fear  otir  t;-oop,  conistiog  of  uo  more  titan  15,006  elicetise,  can  do  taut  little.  Most  of  our  friends  at  Oporto  escaped  before  the  Preneh  entered  ;  those  who,  I  fear,  are  taken,  are  Mr:  and  Mrs.  ft.  and  Miss  11.  and  our  good  friend  the  Doctor,  who  conceived  himself  briund  to  stay,  because  he  had  otfered  his  services  in  the  line  of  his  •  Portuguese  PaperS  to  the  Sd  instant  have  likewise  beeti  received.  They  state  that  while  SouLT  was  occupied  against  Oporto,  a  Portuguese  corps  had  been  able  to  retake  Chaves,  Where  the  enemy  are  reported  to  have  lost  500  men  in  killed  and  prisoners.  The  following  is  the  molt  interesting  - STYLE=superscript  intelligence  in  these  papers  i  LisuoN,  Monett  28.  DisPatches_  have,  been  received  from  Brigadier-fienerat  FRANCISCO  DA  SILVEIAA  PENTO  DA.  FONSECA.  dated  the  `2lst  instant,  at  Chaves,  st.ttins,  that  he  has  retaken  that  place,  with  the  loss  on  the  part  of  the  enemy  of  300  killed,  '2OO  %%mold %%molded,  ed, %%molded,  and  as  many  prisoners.  The  rest  of  the  French,  in  Dumber  from  500  to  600,  had  retired  to  the  Fort  of  S.  Francisco,  Where  they  had  nine  or  ten  guns  ;  but  the  Brigadier-General  expected  that  they  could  net  hold  out  above  two  days:  A  confirmation  has  also  been  receive()  of  the  repott  that  the  Nlarnuis  110  M  x  S;.A  has  obtained  some  adVantages  °vet  a  corps  of  6000  French  hi  A  .storga.  .  According  to  advises  fratti  Spanish  Estremaklitra  of  the  22J,  General  VICTOR  had  passed  the  bridge  of  A  rrebispo,  and  Ge.  7  neral  CUBSTk  had  retreated  in  good  .  order  to  Mcdctitn.  There  are  letters  of  a  later  date,  which  state,  th:.t  no  the  23d,  Generat  CUCSTA  totally  destroyed  a  corp  s  Of  104  French  cavalry,  and  took,  from  460  to  'WO  prisoners.  No  distinct  inforniation  has  .been  reeeivedias  yet  of  the  movements  and  force  of  the  corps  commanded  by  VICTOR.  Some  accounts  state  that  he  had  actually  entered  Portugal  at  the  head  of  32,000  men,  after  having  previously  defeated  CUESTA  j  and  that  he  had  pushed  forward  to  Mithin  100  macs  of  Lisbon;  whilst  the  force  under  SOULT.  amounting  to  about  17,000,  was  200  miles  distant  from  that  city.  We  believe  the  accounts  relative  to  VICTOR,  to  be  greatly  ex exaggerated  aggerated exaggerated  ;  however  kve  entertain  no  doubt  that  he,  as  well  as  SOULT,  will  leave  no  exertion  untried,  will  spire  no  Sacrifice,  and  shrink  friim  no  risk,  in  Order  to  unite  their  armies  near  Lith6a;.  '4ii  tabu  of  Witt  P8_TB00013 .  .  .  olved  In  the  same  calamity,  azi  Oporto.  Thd  cared  before  that  place  on  the  27th  ult.  but  Made  till  the  29th,  w  hen  about  9,001  entered  it,  vt•  ith  •  stance,  the  armed  populace  Hs  in  before  them  They  would  find  about  200  pieces  of  artillery;  s  brass,  mid  an  immense  hoot  ,  for  the  bar  havinn  4  1  ip  had  been  able  to  sail  ;  ,consequently  all  the  which  were  16  English  vessels,  almost  all  i  .  i  )  into  their  hands.  It  is  not  in  my  power  to  give  f  this  affair,  as  I  believe  no  one  has  arrived  here  took  pussession  of  that  place;  !nit  the  circucO-  ccurfed,previnusly  to  their  arrival  are  horrible  .  On  the  list,  the  mob  murdered  JOAC  Di  leniaka,  Major  of  the  2d  regiment  ;  and  on  the  to  the  prison;  where  they  dragged  Louts  Dd  of  his  bed,  and  instantly  dispatched  hint  with  I  others,  w  a  were  confined  there  on  suspicion  •d  to  the  French,  were  shift;  the  dead  hodle'  intoph  through  the  streets,  across  the  litidge,and  i  time  river.  After  h:iving  wreaked  their  venom  •  .  Unfortunate  wretches,  the  mob  throw  open  the  it  released  all  the  prismiers  withou  t  exception;  '  •  .  Ise  nefarious  Villains  ale  again  let  looe  on  the  ported  here,  that  the  French  have  about  20400  rth  of  Portugal,  and  v.  e  expert  that  General  ..,..,  in,  , STYLE=superscript  toubtedly  gained  a  corhplete  victory  over  'liter  FOrtugal  by  A  Icantara,  with  an  army  of  ere  ;5.  besides,  a  force  of  7030  at  Salamanca.  I  sir  t;  - STYLE=superscript  oops,  consisting  . STYLE=superscript  of  no  more  titan  15,000  0  but  little.  Most  of  our  friends  at  Oporto  the  Preiteh  entered  ;  those  who,  I  fear,  are  out  Mrs.  ft.  and  Miss  U.  and  our  good  friend  the  neeived  him  , STYLE=superscript  elf  briund  to  stay,  because  he  had  :es  in  the  line  of  his  *.  Papers  to  the  Scl  instant  have  likewise  beei  1  1 STYLE=superscript  :  7 STYLE=superscript  1  .'  ey  State;  that  while  SouLT  was  occupied  ,  1  a  Portuguese  corps  had  been  able  to  retake  the  enemy  are  reported  to  have  lost  500  and  prisoners.  The  following  is  the  molt  ;lligence  in  these  papers  i  li  LtsuoN,  Mittel;  28;,  ,  ...  .  have,  been  received  Nom  Brigadier-Getierat  A  SILVEIItA  PUNTO  DA  FONSECA.  dated  the  :7  Chaves,  stating,  that  he  has  retaken  that  place,  the  part  of  the  enemy  of  300  killed,  WO  wound-  '  prisoners.  The  rest  of  the  Fi  - STYLE=superscript  ench,  in  number  ,  had  retired  to  the  Fort  of  S.  Francisco,  *herd  r  ten  guns;  but  the  Brigadier-General  expected  ti-t  hold  out  above  two  days:  A  coufirmation  eeived  of  the  repott  that  the  Nlarnuis  Ito  M  A  !VA  ine  adVantages  over  a  corps  of  6000  French  hi  •  .  .  .  to  advices  frOM  Spanish  Estremadara  of  the  22J,  a  had  passed  the  tiridge  of  A  rcebispo.  and  Ge-  v;  tad  retreated  in  good,  order  to  Medetitn.  There  iss  later  date,  which  state,  th:.t  on  the  23d,  General  y  destroyed  a  coys  Of  104  French  cavalry,  and  1  o  'lOO  pr6oriers.'  information  has  .been  reeeivedias  yet  o  the  .  f  id  force  of  the  corps  commanded  by  VICTOR.  1  state  that  he  had  actually  entered  Portugal  32,000  men,  after  having  previously  defeated  that  he  had  pushed  forward  to  Mithin  100  -  ,  n  ;  whilst  the  force  under  SOULT.  amounting  •  )0,  was  200  miles  distant  from  that  city.  We  counts  relative  to  Vicroa,  to  be  greatly  ex-  i  )wever  kve  entertain  no  doubt  that  he,  as  T,  will  leave  no  exertion  untried,  will  spare  and  shrink  from  no  risk,  .in  Order  to  unite  ..,  ear  Litbou;  11)ii  tabu  of  Witt  ii  ituperioililt  lIE  NATIONAL  itEttStElt.  nut  1  Urgent  in  order  to  give  more  effect  to  negociations  which  11,g0NAPARTi  continues  to  carry  on  with  Austria  ;  tc,  conLrai  at  the  same  time;  accounts,  so  artfully  circulated  through  the  medium  of  the  French  papers,--4hat  our  government,  disheartened  by  the  reveries  sustained  during  the  Spanish  Campaign;  has  abandoned  every  future  eTort,  in  fa favour  vour favour  of  the  Peninhuln;—and  above  all  to  try  to  im-  Preso  efts  the  Spaniards  the  inefficacy  of  our  assistance.  which  is  insufficient  to  prbtect  Portugal  against  it  small  par'  of  the  enemy's  force'.  That  this  is  the  object  of  the  expedition  ig  apparent  ;  for  as  soon  as  we  take  Into  consi consideration  deration consideration  the  fermentation  which  exists  in  Gallicia,  the  cap capture-of  ture-of capture-of  Vigg  o,  the  movements  and  success  of  RoisANS.,  the  unsubdued  spirit  of  the  Astnrians,  the  force  organised  by  Dlarstial  BERESFORD;  and  the  position  maintained  by  Sir  lioniaT  Witgoiv—it  is  impossible,  then;  to  deny,  that  the  plan  of  operation::  pursued  by  SOULT  is  hazardous  in  the  extreme.  Should  CUESTA  be  able  to  keep  Vic  Tort  in  bheck,  and  prevent  him  from  advancing  on  the  side  of  stremadura,  the  Situation  Of  SOULT  becomci  oncom oncommonly  monly oncommonly  dangerous;  and  a  retreat  doubtful.  Whatever  be  the  event  of  CUESTA'S  efforts,  assisted  by  the  detachment  kvhich  General  BERESieRD,  has  already  sent  him,  the  force  under  Viciva  must  suffer  coniiide6bly  from  any  engagement  which  may  take  place  litween  him  and  the  Spanish  General.  General  BERESFORO  will,  we  arc  Convinced,  omit  nothing,  distingniOied  professional  talents,  great  zeal  And  enterprize  can  effect,  order  to  annoy  Vietdii;  and  to  impede  his  march.  The  Portu Portuguese,  guese, Portuguese,  when  welt  conducted,  as  we  have  Seen  in  the  in instance  stance instance  of  Sir  110iiEitT  WiLSON'S  legion,  are  good  soldiers  ;  and  we  lee  no  reason;  why  they  should.  deny  that  charac character,  ter, character,  when  they  are  organized,  and  directed  by  so  intelligent  an  officer  as  General  lkitasponoi  We  are,  therefore,  far  from  Suhicrihing  to  the  deipondent  anticipations  of  our  Cotemporariest  and  are  very  far  from  abandoning  the  ex expectation,  pectation, expectation,  that  the  _British  force  near  Lisbon,  though  amounting  to  only  rl,OOO  men,  will  be  able  to  maintain  their  grimnd,  until  the  expected  reinforcements  arrive  from  this  country.  The  expedition  vs  hich  sailed  from  Cove,  must  have  reached  Lisbon  long  before  SOULT  COU:d  have  approached  that  city  ;  and,  joined  to  the  force  already  there,  was  more  than  _adennatc  to  give  Vltava  a  warm  re reception,  ception, reception,  in  case  he  advanced.  We  regret;  and  so  does  every  man  whose  sentiments  we  Q  44  interesting  fact—that  in  Portugal,  as  well  as  in  Spaid  and  several  other  cocutries,  they  have  evinced  a  steady  loyalty,  and  unalter►►blc  attachment  to  their  country  ;  whilst  the  conduct  of  the  higher  classes  has  been  infa►nous  for  its  indifference,  or  revolting  for  its  perfidy.  The  for former,  mer, former,  who  have  co►nparatively  little  to  lose,  whose  situa situation,  tion, situation,  apparently,  is  not  much  altered  by  a  change  of  mas masters,  ters, masters,  have  Willingly  shed  their  blood  for  this  little,  and  ob obstivately  stivately obstivately  dung  to  instructions,  which  betrayed  a  step.  motherly  severity  to  them.  The  rich,  and  the  noble,  on  the  contrary,  who  possess  so  many  exclusive  advantages,  besides  the  preponderating  influence  arising  from  the  move moveable  able moveable  and  immoveable  property  of  the  country,  have  run  to  meet  the  yoke  which  was  prepared  for  them;  and  dis disgusted  gusted disgusted  even  the  invaders,  by  their  servility;  cowardice,  and  baseness.  The  Dispatches  from  Spain,which  have  likeivise  beep  pub=  Lshed  in  an  ExtraordinarN  Gazelle,  contain  an  account  of  a  ;;ullant  attack  made  by  the  Spanish  Patriots,  supported  by  two  British  frigates,  upon  the  French  garrison  in  Vigo.  The  enemy,  amounting  to  1,500  men  and  50  Officers,  were  compelled  to  surrender  prisoners  of  war,  to  be  con conveyed  veyed conveyed  to  England,  where  - STYLE=superscript  they  are  to  remain  until  duly  exchanged.  The  military  chest  and  450  horses  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  assailants;  which,  together  with  the  arms  and  ammunition  found  in  the  place,  were  delivered  by  Capt.  MACKISLAY  to  the  Officer  Commanding  the  Spanish  Pa=  [riots.  Whilst  the  French  were  embarking,  in  pursuance  of  the  Capitulation,  information  was  received  that  a  rein=  fin-cement  was  approaching  from  Tuy,  detached  for  the  purpose  of  relieving  the  garrison;  they  were  attacked  with  the  greatest  gallantry  by  the  Patriots;  and  totally  routed.  This  intelligence  is  of  the  highestjmportance  in  the  prey  sent  state  of  Portugal,  and  is  a  new  proof  that  the  spirit  of  the  Spaniards  is  not  broken  down,  as  has  been  foolishly  and  maliciously  imagined;  and  we  expect  to  hear  in  a  very  short  time,  that  the  Gallicians  . STYLE=superscript  alone  will  have  organised  a  force  sufficiently  numero4  to  contend  successfully  with  the  ease easemy,  my, easemy,  and  expel  them  from  that  important  province...  The  success  which  the  Marquis  ROMANA  has  obtained  in  Leon,  will  encrease  the  energy  of  the  Patriots;  and,  though  his  late  movement  appears  extremely  hazardous,  we  antici anticipate  pate anticipate  the  most  beneficial  result  from  his  co-operatioa  and  junction  with  the  Asturians.  Surrounded  as  he  is  on  every  side  by  the  enemy,  the  mountains  and  fastnesses  of  Astu Astu-fiord  -fiord Astu-fiord STYLE=superscript  h;  shy  id  he  be  forced  act  I  i  6'  rb  P9_TB00010 je  t  P9_TB00011 _  ,  rias  afford  him  a  sure  retreat,  should  he  be  forced  to  act  •  -,  have  heard  on  the  occasion,  that  the  departure  of  Sir  AR- STYLE=superscript  on  the  defensive  .  But  his  presence  at  the  head  of  a  very  . STYLE=superscript  ifteß  WiLLESLET  has  been  so  lona  deferred.  The  presence  ry  considerable  force  Must  ronse  every  particle  of  patriotism  laf  that  General-,  and  the  force  accompanying  him,  would  which  exists  in  the  Northern  part  o  f  the  Peninsula.  The  ,  tugal,  with  far  greater  precipitation  than  they  entered  it.  riot  only  secure  Lisbon,  but  expel  the  enemy  from  Por-  French  are  placed  ,once  more  in  a  predicament  which  proved  so  fatal.  to  them  last  Summer.  They  are  divided  hlowever,  the  affairs  of  that  kingdom  are  far  from  being  into  small  corps,  surrounded  by  an  infuriated  population,  desperate,  and  if  Ministers  display  prudence  and  proMpti-  i.  acquiring  more  and  more  the  habits  of  discipline;  and  wb  I  - STYLE=superscript  :  fade,  the  greater  part  of  the  enemy's  army',  which  has  pc-  predict  it  the  linemy  adhere  to  their  present  divided  plan  .!  netrated  into  Po4ugali  may  have  the  honour  of  Visiting  of  operations,  they  will  sustain  a  repetition  of  the  disasters  the  British  shores.  and  disgraces  which  followed  their  firia  a  ggression.  No:-  We  are  reduced  to  the  painful  necessity  of  recording  another  est,  desultory  and  detestable  example  of  treachery  to  the  many  which  have  of  thing  can  be  so  deStructive  to  them  as  the  des  irregular  attacks  they  are  now  exposed  to.  Their  strap=•  I  .1  late  dishonoured  the  conduct  of  those  to  whom  the  defence  Of  their  country  was  enti:usted.  Gen.  B.  FnEftE  D'ANDPAD,  1  filers  will  be  cut  to  pieces;  their  pests  will  be  overpowered  . STYLE=superscript  '  -  '  :Id  put  to  the  sword,  and  their  nninhers,  formidable  ai  '4,vlio  commanded  the  Portuguese  troops  stationed  on  the  ,  i  hey  may  he  at  present,  will  be  soon  thinned  by  uninters  ,-,,!  .  t  frontiers  of  Callicia,  had  been  detected  of  an  infamous  milted  and  harrassing  '  ,  'comp  racy  to  facilitate  the  entrance  of  the  enemy  into  Por-  service.  ...,  tugal,  The  enraged  people  tore  him  literally  to  pieces,  --,...--- STYLE=superscript  1 STYLE=superscript  We  h  a  v  e  received  further  i  n  t  elligence  from  Americai  iis  soon  as  his  treasonable  project  had  been  discovered.  through  the  medium  of  the  A  mer  i  can  papers  which  have  •  t STYLE=superscript  .'  -'  4  :everal  Generals  were  complicated  in  this  diabolical  con-  •  1  ..  arrived.  They  contain  Mr.  MADISON'S  first  Speech,  as-•  iap:racy,  aud  such  as  escaped  the  just  fury  of  the  people,  cessor  to  Mr.  JEFFERSON  in  the  Presidency.  This  Speech  •,  have  been  sent  prisoners  to  Lisbon.  That  brave  and  meri-  has  no  other  particular  trait,  than  a  whining,  methodistical  .  ..,  .  .4r.  torious  officer,  .General  Bra  ESFORD,  has  been  appointed,  cant,  which  has,  in  fact,  distinguished  for  some  years  the  ....'  by  the  PituicE  R  EGENT,  Field-Marshal  and  Commander  in  -  1  Chief  of  the  Portuguese  for-es.  o  ffi  cial  documents  publ)shed  in  that  country.  It  is,  there-  •  '  The  private  letters  descrihr,  we  are  sorry  to  slate,'  fore,  not  very  particular,  as  referring  to  America;  but,  .  .  contrasted  with  the  patical  morality  of  Europe,  cannot  'not  in  the  Most  flattering  colours,  the  state  of  the  fail  to  occasion  a  stare  at  its  afflicted  and  extras  a,ane  1  popular  feelings,  o  r  the  organization  of  the  public  P  ,  .  3  .  garb.  ,  .  .  .  .  .  force.  We  must  do,  however,  the  juslite  to  the  great  .  the  lowei  .  ..  The  American  Embargo  was  repealed  on  the  Ist  of  body,  or  as  they  are  commonly  denominated,  Mara:  This  intelligence  is  communicated  iti  letters  frOin  ..,  cN.;;;  of  the  iieuple,  Ity  inentioritng  the  ittSttlittive  aiid  •  4:  ii  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  ~..  IFoops,  I  shall  have  the  honour  to  command  the  Eagles  ta  ken STYLE=superscript  from  the  enemy  to  be  laid  at  the  king's  fegt.  Captain  Prcedy,  e  t'  the  gloi  regiment,  Qne  of  my  aides-de-ramp,  has  the  honour  Ihp  the  bearer  of  this  dispatch  :heis  an  o  ffi  cer  of  service,  and andt4  t4 andt4  beg  leave  to  recommend  him  to  his  Majesty's  favour,  and  to  xfp.ir  lordship's  protection.  I  annex  the  following  Returns  :  tiFtirrtoce,  ammunition,  and  stares,  taken  from  the  enemy  ;  pro,  Tisiq's  in  the  fortress,  with  the  daily  issues;  the  king's  hot-pi,  i  ft  4,  4  bavp  the  konoar  to  be,  &amp;c.  (Signed)  CEO.  BECKWITM,  Om.  Forces.  Mete  follow  the  Articles  of  Capitulation,  of  which  the  fol folloAing  loAing folloAing  is  the  substance  :—Gen.  V  illaret  Joyense,  as  a  mark  of  vf-  acct,  is  allowed  to  proceed  to  France,  free  from  all  restric restriciwil  iwil restriciwil  to4ether  With  his  Aides  di'  Camp;  the  garrison,  after  Erpt!nding  their  arms,  are  to  be  embarked  for  France,  as  prison prisongri  gri prisongri  cif  war  t  to  proceed  t.  Qaiieron  Airy,  and  there  an  exchange  ph  :1:  piace  hetween  the  two  nations,  rank  for  rank,  under  ,  ;  i:ard  of  sa:ne  English  ships  of  war.  The  troops  retain  their  mimic  property.  The  einharkation  and  voyage  to  he  at  the  tixp,enee  of  his  Britannic  Majesty,  The  persons  and  property  pflit  the  inhabitants  to  be  respected,  and  none  to  he  molested  for  it,mr  political  opinions.  Tilo  garrison  to  embark  at  forthest,  vithin  days.  return  of  the  French  army  capable  of  embarkation,  states  ¶he  number  ter  be  14  superior  officers,  141  ()Ulcers,  1,8127  petty  paii  - STYLE=superscript  ers  and  soldiers,  '402  marines.  'the  artillery  and  ordnance  iltiTe  are  immense.  Amongst  the  provisions  were  1,300  barrels  30ti  tierces  of  salt  beef,  and  OS  barrels  of  salt  pork.  the  and  wounded  in  the  British  hospitals  are  460.]  Then  follow  Admiral  Cochrane's  dispatches;  but  as  they  pputain  nothing  essentially  different  from  those  of  General  Beck Beck-Iwe  -Iwe Beck-Iwe STYLE=superscript  have  beep  obliged  t  for  wont  of  tinge  :  to  omit  their  in inp  p inp  I.,:st  of  the  Squadron  employed  in  the  reduction  of  Ma  r STYLE=superscript  t  i STYLE=superscript  n  i STYLE=superscript  q  ue STYLE=superscript  .  Ships  of  the  line—Neptune,  Poiripte,  liellei4le,  York,  Cap Cap.  . Cap.  V‘ir.  r  and  Intrepid.  Frigates—Acasta,  Penelope,  Ethalion,  olus,  Circe,  Ulysses,  and  Eurydice.  Sloops,  &amp;c.—Gorf:e,  91‘erene;  Cherub,  Stiirk,  Amaranthe,  Haughty,  Express,  %.11,4er,  forrester,  Recruit,  Star,  Eclair,  and  Frolic.  (Signed)  ALEX.  COCII44N,E•  Neptune,  Fort  Royal  Boy,  Martinique,  February  26,  1809.  GENERAL  M  EMO  It  Als  DU  1I•  i  lkaTe  great  satisfaction  in  announcing  to  the  squadron  the  ov.reoder  of  the  Fc.rt  Bourbon.  which  event  was  finally  eon eon-00ed,  00ed, eon-00ed,  and  the  terms  of  Capitula  t STYLE=superscript  i  on STYLE=superscript  rati STYLE=superscript  fi STYLE=superscript  ed, STYLE=superscript  on STYLE=superscript  Friday STYLE=superscript  vitt  2  r4t  i  and  yesterday  the  British  troops  marched  in,  and  took  oss.:.ssion  of  the  principal  defences  of  that  fortress;  by  which  0  Foyereigntx  of  this  important  island  has  been  secured  to  I'eM  Britain.  When  I  reflect  on  the  labour  and  difficulties  the  Commodore,  MOf,  several  Captains  and  Officers,  Petty  Officer  3,  Seamen  and  arines,  have  encountered,  and  on  the  short  time  in  which  this  45yice  has  tteen  accomplished,  1  am  impressed  with  the  highest  Quse  of  their  perseverance  and  courage  ;  and  I  shall  not  fail  to  fc.pact  the  sane  to  my  Lora:  , STYLE=superscript  Commissioners  of  the  Admiralty.  I  have  also  viewed  with  admiration  the  bravery  and  disci disciof  of disciof  v  ‘  l:ae.  , STYLE=superscript  the  army  ;  but  Ilcitish•  troops  led  on  by  such  of:irer:  as  i  t  /i,  love  had  the  happiness  of  serving  with  in  the  reduction  of  ;  l STYLE=superscript  i!  i  i7  ksliktl4,  arc  inviarible;  and  it  is  with  no  littler  pride  I  have  yit;iiessed  the  cordiality  which  basso  interuptedly  subsided  he hety;m4n  ty;m4n hety;m4n  the  lead  and  sea  forces,  which  on  all  combined  expedi expeditlou.,  tlou., expeditlou.,  is  the  surest  means  of  leading  to  success.  -  i  r  evest  that  Commodore  Coeburn  and  the  several  Captains  lislt  tlqme  the  honour  to  accept  my  warmest  thanks  for  their  ckettions,  also  the  other  officers,  and  pett-otlicers,  seamen,  and  twat  . STYLE=superscript  ..bless;  and  that  the  captains  w  ill  communicate  the  same  to  the  irAttc  r  is  a  suiL  able  manner.  •  (  Signed)  •  Ft,  the  Commodore,  the  respectitle  Captains,  c'olynanders,  4c.  Sec.  ALEX.  COCHRANE.  ifdmiralty  Office,  April  12,  1809.  letteF  fra  m  Captain  G  eorge  inley,  of  his  Majesty's  4,4ip  Lively,  to  the  lion.  W.  W.  Pole,  dated  on  board  that  iwo,  the  9.9  th  of  March,  1809.  have  thought  it  of  importance  that  my  Lords  Corn Corn-  -- Corn-  the  Admiralty  shoull  have  the  earliest  intelligence  a  Ow.  v  i  rretAec  of  Vigo,  I  have  dispatched  Mr.  T.  Furber,  Se Seuf  uf Seuf  ship,  (in  a  vessel  hired  fur  the  purpose)  APRIL  16  with  a  copy  er  .  my  letter  on  that  subject,  to  the  lion.  Vice-Ad-  tniral  Berkeley.  I  hu.ve  the  llonour  to  he.  GKORGE  111‘Krittv  !  Sin  Lively,  Vigo,  March  29,  1909.  In  consetvence  of  a  letter  I  received  at  yill  ag  arcia  from  Copt,  Crawford,  of  the  Venus,  off  Vigo,  informing  the  that  the  loyal  peasantry  were  in  considerable  force  around  the  castle  and  town  of  Vigo  and  that  the  presence  of  pother  frigate  would  very  much  contribute  to  the  surrender  of  that  fortress,  I  joined  him  no  the  evening  of  the  2.1  d  inst.  Tha  next  morning  I  went  to  the  head-quarters  of  Don  Joan  de  Almada  de  Sau4o  e  Silva,  who  commanded  the  patriots.  At  the  instant,  a  stramons  was  sent  to  the  Governor  of  Vigo  to  surrender  at  discretion,  which  led  to  a  negociation  between  him  and  the  French,  which  continued  till  the  26th,  when  Don  Pablo  Murillo,  commaoiliog  a  regolaeforce  of  fifteen  hundred  men,  composed  of  retired  soldiers  in  this  pro,  vince,  arrived,  and  sent  in  a  summons  to  surrender.  In  conse consequence  quence consequence  of  which,  on  the  following  day,  the  proposals  (No.  1.)  were  brought  on  hoard  by  Don  Pablo  Murillo.  accompanied  by  three  French  Officers.  The  answers  to  them  (No.  2.)  were  delivered  at  5  P.M.  by  Captain  Crawford,  who  concluded  the  capitulation  which  I  have  the  honour  to  inclow;  and  the  whole  of  the  garrison,  consisting  of  a  Colonel,  fort*,five  Officers,  and  about  thirteen  or  fourteen  hundred  roen,  were  embarked  the  next  mornin  g  .  I  should  be  wanting  in  every  feeling  of  ito  Officer,  were  not  to  acknow  Age  the  liberal  'attention  and  zealous  services  of  Captain  Craw  ford.  It  also  !reentries  most  gratifying  that  lam  enabled  to  inform  you  of  the  spirit  and  determination  of  the  Spaniards  to  expel  from  their  country  the  invaders  of  all  that  is  dear  to  a  brave  and  loyal  people.  No  doubt  of  Fuccetis  could  haveatisen,  had  the  enemy  persisted  in  holding  out,  from  the  able  and  prompt  conduct  of  Don  Pablo  Murillo,  and  the  good  order  of  his  troops,  the  strongest  proof  of  his  zeal  in  the  just  cause  of  his  King  and  country,  and  the  ardour  of  the  pea.,  santry  is  beyond  all  desc.ription.  j  have  the  Honour  to  he,  Gr,o4  MtKINLEY.  the  Hon.  Vice-Adm.  Rerkeley,  4r.  P.  S.  I  beg  to  inclose  a  correct  statement  of  the  French  force  as  time  would  allow  me  to  procure.  [The  articles  No.  I.  and  2.  above  referred  to,  are  a  discussion  of  the  Terms  of  Capitulation,  the  result  of  which  is,  that  the  garrison  as  prisoners  of  war  are  to  he  sent  to  England,  the  o.ilicer4  keeping  their  swords  and  wearing  apparel.]  Statement  of  the  French  forces,  &amp;c.  surrendered  by  Capitulation  at  yi  g  o,  :11:ach,  1809,  to  his  Majesty's  ships  Lively  and  Venus,  and  the  force*  of  his  Catholic  Majesty  Ferdinand  the  Seven:h.  46  Officers,  9.58  inferior  officers  and  privates  fit  for  ditty,  SO()  sick—Total  13(4  men.  447  Horses,  6  carriages,  covered  wag wagpins,  pins, wagpins,  and  carts  ;  military  chest,  containing  117,P,3  francs  in,  French  specie.  The  returns  of  the  garrison  cannon  field,piece,  muskets,  am,  munition,  ordnance  stores,  ec.c.  &amp;c.  not  yet  received,  hut  the  whole  together,  with  the  horses,  carriages,  and  specie,  have  been  delivered  to  Don  Pedro  Murillo,  Commander  in  Xefe  of  the  forces  of  his  Catholic  111ajesty  Vecdinand  the  Seventh.  (Sighted)  Gm:km;  IN  t.cv.  Admirallr..oflirr,  April  12,  1809.  Copy  of  another  Letter  from  Captain  M'Kinley,  of  his  Nlajes,  tv's  ship  Lively,  to  the  lion.  W.  IV.  Pole,  dated  March  ‘i9th,  1809.  _  Sir-1  have  the  honour  to  inform  von,  for  the  information  of  My  Lords  Commissioners  of  the  Admiralty,  that  in  the  act  of  embarking  the  French  garrison,  advice  was  received  of  a  Frenc4  force  approaching,  when  Don  Pablo  Murillo  immediately  marched,  attacked,  totally  routed  them,  and  made  many  pri  T  soners,  who  informed  me  they  were  a  detachment  of  three  hun hundred  dred hundred  liken  fToku  n  Fuy,  for  the  relief  of  Vigo.  I  have  the  honour  to  be,  &amp;r.  G.  WKINLEir.  LONDON  G.  4  ZETTE.  NY  LORI),  dlmethyst,  off  Ushant,  April  12,  180►9.  I  HAVE  very  sincere  pleasure  in  acquainting  you  oil'  the  cap capture  ture capture  of  Le  Nieman,  a  fine  new  French  frigate  of  44  guns,  I  wen,  ty-eight  of  which  are  18  pounders  on  the  main  deck,  and  319  Imo,  copper  fastened,  two  days  from  Verdun  Roads,  with  six  months  provisions  and  naval  stores  on  board,  hound  to  the  Isle  of  France,  commanded  by  Mons.  I)uponet,  Capitaine  de  Fril  gate,  a  distinguished  Officer,  who  dereuded.  his  ship  with  great  Oita)  , STYLE=superscript  aud.  resolution.  P12_TB00016 •.:;.;  .:.........1,---=mammar--7--_  - STYLE=superscript  7.--  .  ...  :  -  144  _  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  APRIL  16  liv STYLE=superscript  _______  •  .  ,  ...  .  _.  .  i  t  i  l  e  t  ihinotilsouubrjeteot,heto  &amp;r.the  lion.  V  ice,Adt  , STYLE=superscript  rlps;seti  shall  enemy  t  ha  o  t  ve  t  he  e  t  hr  t  tn  t  o  h  ur  e  k  t  .  o  comman  d  m  s  f  ma  t  o  d  (  t  ..  he  b  E  t  t  .  tgle  n  psrteat.kien  mirtahl&#34;Bee°riklleerimYllehiat';:it)  o  f  the  fpoi  regiment,  one  of  my  aides-de-ramp,  has  the  honour  IXORGE  M‘Krittv.  4/  tl  ll  e  c  r  t  i  fi  e  e  lv  b  e  N  t  tr  l  e  e  r  e  r  e  tf  oni  th  l  i  o  s  e  r  o  l  d  isp  i  :  i  t  i  t  i  e  lt  h  t  :  o  t  It  h  e  i,  is  l  a  ia  n  j  ( STYLE=superscript  es  tl STYLE=superscript  t  i STYLE=superscript  y  ee STYLE=superscript  ':  ° STYLE=superscript  U  r STYLE=superscript  i:on:  lc STYLE=superscript  a%  a STYLE=superscript  nd STYLE=superscript  - STYLE=superscript  and  to  Slit  Lively,  Vigo  )  March  29,  1809.  In  conseqqence  of  a  letter  I  received  at  yill  og  arcia  from  Copt,  xfp.ir  lorcisOip's  protection.  I  qnnex  the  following  Returns  :-..-  Crawford,  of  the  Venus,  of  Vigo,  informing  me  that  the  loyal  tlFdrtoce,  ammunition,  and  stores,  taken  from  the  enemy  ;  pros  peasantry  were  in  considerable  force  aroond  the  castle  and  town  Tisioq's  in  the  fortress,  with  the  daily  issues;  the  king's  hcopis  of  Vigo,  arid  that  the  presence  of  qnother  frigate  would  very  IA  4  44v¢  the  honour  to  be,  &amp;c.  much  contribute  to  the  surrender  of  that  fortress,  I  joined  him  on  (Signed)  CEO.  BECKWIIT,  Com.  Forces.  the  evening  of  the  2.1  d  inst.  Tha  next  morning  I  went  to  the  head-quarters  of  Don  Joan  de  Almada  de  Sun  e  Silva,  who  °  led  the  patriots.  At  the  instant,  a  summons  was  sent  to  here  follow  the  Articles  of  Capitulation,  of  which  the STYLE=superscript  fol- STYLE=superscript  e STYLE=superscript  the  T:t  a STYLE=superscript  ts  7 STYLE=superscript  e  ( STYLE=superscript  rnor  of  Vigo  to  surrender  at  discretion,  which  led  to  a  Iftlkilig.  i  s  the  substance  :—Gen.  V  illaret  Joyense,  as  a  mark  of  .  negotiation  between  him  and  the  French,  which  continued  till  vf  oect,  is  allowed  to  proceed  to  France,  free  from  all  restric•  the  26th,  when  Don  Pablo.  Murillo  ,  commandipg  a  regplarforee  lapi  l  together  With  his  Aides  de  Camp  ;  the  garrison,  after  h  p  t  his  pro,  of  fifteen  hondred  men,  composed  of  retired  soldier  •  i  Flooding.  their  arms,  are  to  be  embarked  for  .  France,  as  pri  son-  vince,  arrived,  and  sent  i  n  a  summons  to  surren  der.  in  conse-  era  of  war,  to  proceed  t.•  ki_:liilCl  . STYLE=superscript  oll  Airy,  an  d  t  h  ere  an  exc  hange  quence  of  which,  on  the  following  day,  the  proposals  (No.  1.)  phi  1;  ral,•  olace  between  the  two  nations,  rank  for  rank,  under  o  ere  brought  on  hoard  by  Don  Pablo  Murillo,  accompanied  by  he,  4  1:arci  of  some  s  hi  psEng  li  s  h  o  f  wa  r  .  The  troo  p  s  retain  their  s  three  French  Officers.  The  answers  to  them  (No.  2.)  were  mimic  property.  The  einharkation  and  voyage  to  he  at  the  delivered  at  5  P.M.  by  Captain  Crawford,  who  concluded  the  tixoenee  of  his  Britannic  Majesty,  The  persons  and  property  capitulation  which  4  have  the  honour  to  inclose;  and  the  whole  pflll  the  inhabitants  to  be  respected,  and  none  to  he  molested  for  of  the  garrison,  consisting  of  a  Colonel,  forts,five  Officers,  and  Ow  political  opinions.  Tio  garrison  to  embark  at  furthest,  about  thirteen  or  fourteen  hundred  men,  were  embarked  the  next  vkthin  0  days.  mornin  g  .  I  should  be  wanting  in  every  feeling  of  en  O  ff  i STYLE=superscript  cer  , STYLE=superscript  The  return  of  the  French  army  capable  of  emba  r STYLE=superscript  ka  tion, STYLE=superscript  states STYLE=superscript  were  not  to  acknoo  ...age  the  liberal  attention  and  zealous  the  ;mother  to  be  14  superior  oilicers,  141  officers,  1,8,7  petty  services  of  Captain  Crams  ford.  It  also  becomes  most  gratifying  p.  t  r  - STYLE=superscript  crs  and  soldiers,  '402  marines.  'I  he  artillery  and  ordnance  that  lam  enabled  to  inform  you  of  the  spirit  awl  determination  care?!  ore  immense.  Amongst  the  provisions  were  1,300  barrels  of  the  Spaniards  to  expel  from  their  country  the  invaders  of  all  Ai  2oor,  300  tierces  of  salt  beef,  and  98  barrels  of  salt  pork.  that  is  dear  to  a  brave  and  loyal  people.  No  doubt  of  FuCCel;s  tile:  sicl}  and  wounded  in  the  British  hospitals  are  460.]  could  have  atisen,  had  the  enemy  persisted  in  holding  out,  from  Then  follow  Admiral  Cochrane's  dispatches;  but  as  they  the  ogle  and  prompt  conduct  of  Don  Pablo  Murillo,  and  the  po  t  etaio  nothing  essentiall  y  di  ff  erent  from  those  of  General  Beck  - STYLE=superscript  good  order  of  his  troops,  the  strongest  proof  of  his  zeal  in  the  !tit  ti,  we  have  beep  s  obliged,  for  of  Ow,  to  omit  their  in-  just  cause  of  his  King  and  country,  and  the  ardour  of  the  pea  s  p•riol  santry  is  beyond  all  des  c  ription.  I  have  the  honour  to  he,  Sif.  Ist  of  the  Squadron  employed  in  the  redaction  of  Ma  r STYLE=superscript  t  i STYLE=superscript  n  i STYLE=superscript  q  ue STYLE=superscript  .  Geottn  AVM:sr-EY.  Ships  of  the  line—Neptune,  PompCe,  Belleisle,  York,  Cap-  To  the  Hon.  Vice-Adm.  Berkeley,  4c.  join.  and  Intrepid.  Frigates—Aca.sta,  Penelope,  Fahalion,  ,iarlus,  Circe,  Ulysses,  ond  Eurydice.  Sloops  , STYLE=superscript  &amp;c.—Goree,  P.  S.  I  beg  to  inclose  a  correct  statement  of  the  French  force  At  ol‘erene,'  Cherub,  Sttirk,  Amaranthe,  Haughty,  Express,  as STYLE=superscript  time STYLE=superscript  would STYLE=superscript  allow STYLE=superscript  me STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  p  rocure. STYLE=superscript  s.riger,  rorrester,  Recruit,  Star,  Eclair,  and  Frolic.  [The  articles  No.  I.  and  2.  above  referred  to,  are  a  discussion  (Signed)  ALEX.  COCII4.4NE•  of  the  Terms  of  Capitulation,  the  result  of  which  is,  that  the  ...------.  garrison  as  prisoners  of  war  are  to  he  sent  to  England,  the  Offic  era  Neptune,  Fart  Royal  Bay,  Martinique,  keeping  their  swords  and  wearing  apparel.)  1  .  •  February  26,  1809.  '  Statement  of  the  French  forces,  &amp;c.  surrendered  by  Capitulation  GENERAL  MEMORANDUM.  at  yi  g  o,  27th  March,  1809,  to  his  Majesty's  ships  Lively  and  i  bay  e  great  satisfaction  in  announcing  to  the  squadron  the  Venus,  aod  the  forces  of  his  Catholic  Majesty  Ferdinand  the  oveader  of  the  Fort  Bourbon.  which  event  was  fi  nally  con-  Seven:h.  loded  a  nd  46  Officers,  958  inferior  o  ffi  cers  and  privates  fi  t  for  duty,  300 STYLE=superscript  •  f:  .  9  the  terms  of  Capitulation  rati  fi  ed  , STYLE=superscript  on  Friday  .  Vilti'M  ;  anti  yesterday  the  British  troop  s STYLE=superscript  m  arched STYLE=superscript  in, STYLE=superscript  and STYLE=superscript  took  sick—Total  1304  men.  447  Horses,  6 STYLE=superscript  2  carriages,  covered  wag,  cosession  of  the  principal  defences  of  that  fortress;  by  which  p..  2  0.  ns,  h  and  ca  rts  .  ;  military  chest,  containing  117,  1  3  francs  in,  ac  sovereignty  of  this  important  island  has  been  secured  to  specie.  i'eM  ftritiOn.  The  returns  of  the  garrison  cannon  field,piece,  muskets,  ant,  •  .i.  munition,  ordnance  stores,  &amp;c.  &amp;c.  not  yet  received,  hut  the  When  I  reflect  on  the  l  a  b  our  and  difficulties  the  Commodore,  Ile  several  Captaios  and  Officers,  Petty  Officers,  Seamen  and  arioes,  have  encotrteced,  and  on  the  short  time  in  which  this  whole  together,  with  the  horses,  carriages,  and  specie,  have  been  delivered  to  Don  Pedro  Murillo,  Commander  in  Xefe  of  the  ,7  i  4  cyice  has  been  accomplished,  lam  impressed  with  the  highest  forces  of  his  cathoiic  INlajtsty  Vetdinand  the  Seventh.  vc,urae  of  tbeir  perseverance  and  courage  ;  and  I  shall  not  fail  to  (Singed)  Gnoata  e  .51‘11:  IN  LEY.  wort  the  same  to  my  Lords  Commissioners  of  the  Admiralty.  Admiralty...o/11re,  April  12,  1809.  I  have  also  viewed  with  admiration  the  bravery  and  disci  - STYLE=superscript  Copy  of  another  Letter  fr  o STYLE=superscript  m  C  a STYLE=superscript  p  tain STYLE=superscript  M•Kinle STYLE=superscript  y  , STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  his STYLE=superscript  Mi STYLE=superscript  d  es, STYLE=superscript  ~  v  ‘  l:tle.  o  f  the  army  ;  but  British•  troops  led  on  by  such  onairers  as  tv's  ship  Lively,  to  the  lion.  W.  W.  Pole,  dated  March  29th,  '  ial,  have  had  the  happiness  of  serving  with  in  the  reduction  of  18  0 STYLE=superscript  9.  •  .  .  .  ;  l STYLE=superscript  eis  island,  are  mysocible;  and  it  is  with  no  little  pride  1  have  Sir—l  have  the  honour  to  inform  you,  for  the  information  ialesse.d  the  cordiality  which  basso  interoptedly  subsided  he-  of  My  Lords  Commissioners  of  the  Admiralty,  that  in  the  act  of  fit;  een  the  load  and  sea  forces,  which  on  all  conshiued  expedi-  embarking  the  French  garrison,  advice  was  received  of  a  French,  i  writs,  is  the  surest  means  oP  leading  to  success.  force  approaching,  when  Don  Pablo  Murillo  immediately  1  i  reqtrest  that  Commodore  Coeburn  and  the  several  Captains  marched,  attacked,  totally  routed  them,  and  made  many  pri  T  saW  dame  the  honour  to  accept  my  warmest  thanks  for  their  ,  soners,  who  informed  me  they  were  a  detachment  of  three  lam-  ,r.  ckettions,  also  the  other  officers,  and  pelts-officers,  seamen,  and  dred  mien  fToin  Fuy,  for  the  relief  of  Vigo.  r,  !  aatrioes  ;  and  that  the  captains  w  ill  Commu  n STYLE=superscript  ica  te STYLE=superscript  the  same  to  the  I  have STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  honour STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  be, STYLE=superscript  &amp;r. STYLE=superscript  '  1  V-Aktgr  in,  ti  so  ‘  iLa  t  b.lo  mariner.  G.  IPKINLEX.  .  •  (  Signed)  •  ALEX.  COCHRANE.  -./  1  . STYLE=superscript  i  ,. STYLE=superscript  4'9,  the,  Commodore,  the  respectitle  Captains,  SaTURDAY'S  LONDON  GdZETTE.  cownanders,  4c.  Sfc,  —.  0  ......_  .  ,  1111'  Loan,  4methyst,  off  Ushant,  April  12,  1809.  i  •  •  Admiralty  (Vice,.  April  12,  1809.  1  I  HAVE  very  sincere  pleasure  in  acquainting  you  of  the  cap-  gaily  of  o  letter  from  Captain  George  M‘  I(  inley,  of  his  Majesty's  tie  •  tore  of  Le  Nieman,  a  tine  new  French  frigate  0f44  guns,  (wen,  4  i  .  4,  1 STYLE=superscript  1  . STYLE=superscript  1  i  1  1 STYLE=superscript  Lively,  to  ,  the  lion.  W.  W.  Pole,  dated  on  board  that  ty-eight  of  which  are  IS  pounders  ou  the  main  deck,  and  319  li  •hi  a  Mino  s  the  29  9  th  of  March,  18W.  ;.•  .„  1,  •  ,  •  meta  copper  fastened,  two  days  from  Verdun  Roads,  with  six  .11'  `  l  a—As  1  have  thought  it  of  importance  that  my  Lords  Com-  months  provisions  and  naval  stores  on  board.  hound  to  the  Isle  '  1  mi  s  sinaers  cst  the  Admiralty  shoull  have  the  earliest  intelligence  of  France,  commataled  by  Mons.  I)uponet,  010i:tine  de  Fri.!  I  .  a  ow.  v  i  rretyler  of  Vigo,  I  have  dispatched  Mr.  T.  Sc-  gate,  a  distinguished  Officer,  who  dekuded  his  ship  with  great  '  .  m  s  Lyateratakt  of  t  104.  ship,  (in  a  vessel  hired  fur  the  pur)ose)  .  Oita)  , STYLE=superscript  and.resolution.  •  ,••  -  -  -  P12_TB00017 1  1  r  '  •,)  •  1'  I  I  ,  254  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  APRI  Cbc  papa.  -----  The  Pulpit,  and  1  name  it  filled  NVitti  !wit-Inn  .we,  that  hids  ;vie  %veil  lieware  With  what  hire  I  touch  that  holy  thing!  There  stand  , STYLE=superscript  the  ine  ..‘eager  of  truth;  there  stands  The  Legate  of  the  Skies!—ii  Theme  di%  ine,  His  office  balCred,  hi.  eredentiabi  clean-170%1'MM  LECTURES  ON  TIIE  Lrruß  G  Commenced  February  the  11th,  and  on  March  the  `?l+t  Terminated,  By  G.  AN  DIU,NV  LS,  D.D.  or  Sr.  JAMES's  CHURCH,  IN  PICCIDILLY.  APPREHENSIVE  of  innovation,  notwithstanding  they  were  solicitous  for  reformation,  the  Reformers  of  the  Church  of  England  did  not  effect  what  otherwise  they  might  have  accomplished.  Many  illustrious  characters,  communicating  within  the  pale  of  its  establishment,  have,  age  after  age,  regretted  the  incompleteness  of  the  protestant  reformation  ;  and  of  these  some  have  propoed,  at  various  times,  to  review  and  a:iend  our  national  liturgy.  it  is  not  probable,  however,  that  this  measure  would  now  be  productive  of  the  advantages  which  it  was  supposed  were  to  be  derived  from  it.  Almost  the  same  considera considerations  tions considerations  which  induced  its  primitive  reformers  to  avoid  the  extreme  of  innovation,  seem  to  apply,  with  equal  force,  at  this  day,  to  the  ceremonies  and  discipline  of  our  national  church.  Crown  with  its  growth  and  strengthened  with  its  strength,  it  appears  highly  ineligible  to  shake  those  habits  and  affections  by  which  the  people  of  this  country,  during  a  critical  succession  of  ages,  have  been  uniformly  induced  to  prefer  and  protect  the  established  religion  of  their  forefathers.  It  is  rarely  possible  to  do  whit  we  call  the  best.  Communities,  no  less  than  the  individuals  which  form  them.  must  submit  to  see  their  wishes  lirnted  by  events,  and  their  operations  circumscribed  b‘  ordinary  computations.  Our  reformers,  resembling  in  this  our  law lawgivers,  givers, lawgivers,  may  say,—as  did  Solon,  when  he  was  asked  whether  be  had  given  the  Athenians  the  best  of  laws  We  gave  them  the  best  of  those  institutions  that  they  would  have  received.  Enough  is  now  suggested,  though  more  might  be  urged  to  the  same  point,  to  explain  the  causes  of  what  many  pious  people  regard  as  defects  in  our  Liturgy  ;  and  to  chew,  that  to  efface  from  it  such  defects,  by  explaining.  difficult  por portions  tions portions  of  it,  by  obviating  objections  made  to  it,  and  by  en enforcing  forcing enforcing  the  ordinances  which  are  contained  in  it,  as  well  as  displaying  the  excellencies  which  abound  throughout  it,  requires  no  gammon  teacher,  but  one  vs  ho,  while  tanglit  by  truth,  is  also  perfectly  acquainted  Ns  ith  theological  distinctions.  The  first  of  the  series  of  Lectures  on  the  Liturgy,  by  Dr.  Indrewes,  of  which  I  am  about  to  speak,  mas  the  COMMINATION  AGAINST  SINNERS.  Sunddy  Evening,  February  the  lgth.—Perhars  it  ought  to  be  premised,  when  I  am  entering  upon  the  performance  of  this  part  of  my  task,  that,  whatever  was  Me  atte:dion  paid  by  me  to  the  subjects  of  these  soccesiive  d'vourscs,  I  have  retained,  excepting  what  memory  may  reproduce,  ehing  more  than  some  short  notes  of  ail  that  fell  from  ninettt  preacher  whose  opinions  it  is  become  m  y  ice  to  examine.  I  trust,  nevertheless,  that  he  will  reason  to  accuse  me  of  having  mis!akeii  hi;  posi•  and  that  even  as  to  words,  where  it  shrill.  ,  , STYLE=superscript  ,  , STYLE=superscript  in  proper  , STYLE=superscript  at  his  words,  it  will  be  confessed  !hilt  I  listened  lo  th  the  solicittult±  to  which  he  i  4  iroFspetr:oly  must  be  often  recollected,  in  excelpaiion  Of  TII  that  to  stand  in  crowded  chnrehez,  some!imei  !ed  from  the  pulpit,  and  sometimes  where  duo:  s  are  12:  anti  shutting  at  you;  back,  is  not  the  most  eligible  In  for  the  purposes  of  retentive  hearing.  DICORVC-  IeS  ruck  as  these,  with  many  wort:,  arc  what  thc.ser.  ther  touier  the  Gospel  than  under  the  Law,  blessin  i  cleat)  or  cursing,  it  may  seem  surprisieg  «hv  we  sh  delight  in  any  religious  ceremony.  which  in  the  leas!  pears  to  militate  aoinst  the  merciful  dispensation  u  which  it  is  tint-  glorious  privileTe  to  •°  live,  move.  have  our  being  Christianity  furnishes  the  best  I,  16.  mon-hearer  feels  himself  continually  subjected  to,  in  mix mixing  ing mixing  with  the  extensive  congregations  of  this  met:  opolis.  Rowland  Hill,  eccentric  as  is  the  general  style  of  his  san santit(  tit( santit(  gnome,  once  justly  remarked,  referring  to  the  mysteries  which  are  acknowledged  to  characterise  revealed  religion,  that  there  is  such  a  thing  as  getting  os  er  Now,  if  this  be  true  of  Divine  Revelation  itself,  it  applies  with  still  more  force,  with  an  almost  irresistible  force,  to  many  of  those  pious  systems,  creeds  and  prayers,  drawn  by  hu human  man human  reason  from  4he  sources  of  divine  wisdom.  It  is  there therefore  fore therefore  oftner  found  easier  to  get  over  the  difficulties  insepa inseparable  rable inseparable  from  those  systems,  than  to  explain  them  ;  and  hence  it  happens,  that  - STYLE=superscript  wisest  expounders  of  theological  for formularies,  mularies, formularies,  anxious  to  do  more  than  enough,  frequently  ex excite,  cite, excite,  by  the  excess  of  their  zeal,  almost  as  many  doubts  as  their  wisdom  appeases.  Highly  as  [  respect  the  abilities  and  acquirements  of  the  present  Rector  of  St.  James's,  and  it  some  time  since  became  me  sincerely  to  express  my  opinion  of  him,  1  cannot  say  that  his  late  parochial  Lectures  on  our  Liturgy  properly  satisfied  sonic  of  those  scruples  by  which  many  legitimate  believers  are  still  induced  to  demur  to  certain  portions  of  the  Occasional  Cffices  contained  in  the  Book  of  COMMOD-  Prayer.'  Dr.  ndrewes,  indeed,  seemed  particularly  unsa unsatisfactory,  tisfactory, unsatisfactory,  however  ingenious,  in  his  solution  of  the  objec objections  tions objections  so  often  urged  against  the  office  of  Culmination  against  Sinners  ;  which,  though  last  in  our  spiritual  ordinances,  formed  the  subject  of  his  first  lecture.  Is  it  possible  to  ac acknowledge  knowledge acknowledge  the  Justice  of  the  Curses  contained  in  this  Office  of  the  Church,  without  implying  condemnation  to  our ourselves  selves ourselves  ?  Well  might  it.  be  retorted,  upon  each  of  those  who  join  in  this  Service,  Out  of  thine  own  mouth  will  1  con condemn  demn condemn  is  the  man,  or  the  %vomits,  that  liveth  and  sinneth  not  ?  Should  it  be  shown,  by  any  felicity_  of  explanation,  that  we  do  not  imprecate,  using  this  office,  on  ourselves,  the  punishment  doe  to  the  transgressions  of  which,  more  or  less,  every  individual  must  here  own  the  commission,  still  another  perplexity  occurs.  If  only  those  who  are  without  sin  arc  to  cast  the  first  stone  at  °Tenders,  where  i  3  the  soul  that  can  with  any  truth  denounce,  as  it  were,  upon  his  fellow-sinners,  the  Curse  of  the  Law  of  God  ?  By  avowing  the  justice  of  the  curses  recited,  in  the  ('ommina ('omminalion  lion ('omminalion  Sinners,  we,  however,  do  virtually  conkss  ourselves  obnoxious  to  them  ;  by  our  rintett,we  do,  think  as  we  may,  confirm  them  personally  ;  and,  so  confessing  and  confirming  them,  do  we  not,  in  fact,  implore  those  denunciations  which  we  declare  ourselves  to  .  have  most,  righteously  deserved  Theic  are  not  imaginary  things.  Every  parish  priest  experiences  the  reluctance  with  which  his  parishioners  are  brought  to  celebrate  even  the  annual  obv.  , STYLE=superscript  rvance  of  the  established  Commutation  Againq  Sinners.'  Plain  minds  cannot  enter  into  the  sided'  ies  of  theologiam  ;  are%  if  .  joined  with  kind  hearts,  take  alarm  at  the  custom  of  religiously  assembling  toge together,  ther, together,  at  stated  times,  for  the  purpose,  as  they  think,  of  im imprecating  precating imprecating  vengeance  en  themselves,  and  denouncing  it  against  their  fallible  fellow-creatures.  The  general  sen sentences  tences sentences  cif  god's  cursing  against.  impenitent  I  ink;  the  most  trving  portion  of  the  present  Commma  Against  Sinners,'  arc,  it  will  he  found,  collected  prineit  From  the  Old  Testament,  To  us,  therefore,  who  liv  mentary  on  neuteronomv.  1  have  been  unnsuallv  explicit  on  the  Office  of  Cal  ngtign  chain'  .*  , STYLE=superscript  illners,  because  it  is  an  office  which  nt  Members  of  the  Church  of  England  disapprove  ;  an:  cause  it  does  not  strike  me,  as  at  all  indispensftble  cith  the  prosperit  y  or  security  of  thisecclesiastical  establishme  It  is  now  little  used,  and  sill  less  olwrved.  Let  it'  strive  for  straws.  Instc:id  of  wishing  to  reinstate  the  gulntions  of  the  ••  primitive  meetly  asthey  P14_TB00014 t  m  ng  th  o  e  t  h  e  i  cdo  ov  n  ine  Cons;  a  to  repel'  him  wit  Spli  it  faults,  distance  opening'  aituatiol  Diancies  P14_TB00015 li  ,  i  I~  P14_TB00016 ►nces,  o  ac-  Mice  our-  who  cun-  iveth  Ity  of  Iffice,  ns  of  n  the  those  as  it  C;od  ?  whirr-  micss  iik  as  •  and  those  have  Mary  lance  even  attoit  the  carts,  toge-  •  if  mi-  ng  it  I  scum  Form-  ation  ipally  ie  ra-  it  , STYLE=superscript  in-  t,  hould  st  all-  under  and  com-  )7n  In  1-  many  id  be-  her  to  ment.  Lis  not  le  re•  we  r  •  ,  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  :iie  contradictions,  be be;  ; be;  be  it  for  us,  fallen,  as  on  evil  days,  id  evil  r  part.  While  NlO  retain  us  not  contend  for  that  Let  us  now,  in  se  HMI,  ask  counsel  of  ishat  is  best;  and  of  the  Iteason,  equally  with  prudence,  seems  to  prescribe  the  practice  we  ought  to  'pursue.  Let  us  neither  re require  quire require  or  concede  too  much.  Let  us  rest  silent,  where  we  c:lnnot  convince  ;  and  conteut  ourselves  with  remaining  sacredly  incloywnt,  whenever  we  cannot  !prove  ourselves  serious;y  demonstrative.  Let  us  specially  avoid  recurring  to  these  principles,  since  principles  they  were  thought,  which,  originally  blending  Moses  with  Jesus,  readily  mixed  Paganism  with  Christianity,  and  spread  darkness  and  deso desolation  lation desolation  over  the  face  of  the  tuitions.  Enlightened  as  we  now  are,  perhaps  we  have  still  to  dread,  with  all  our  light,  the  reinthronement  of  political  despotism  and  religious  super superstition.  stition. superstition.  ONEIIMUS•  WHIG  CLUB.—A  Meeting  of  this  Club  was  on  Tuesday  held  at  the  Freemason's  Tavern,  Samuel  Whitbread,  Esq.  in  the  Chair;  when,  after  the  regular  toasts  of  the  day,  the  attention  of  the  Meeting  was  called  to  the  late  proceedings  in-Parliament.  Mr.  Wardle  was  proposed  as  a  Member,  and  several  Resolutions  were  unanimously  agreed  to.  —  Among  them,  a  ResolutiOa  of  Thanks  was  passed  to  Mr.  Wartl;e,  and  the  principal-  Members  who  supported  the  late  Inquiry  ;  and  another,  declaring  a  Reform  in  Parliament  indispensably  necessary,  was  carriol  by  acclamation.  REPORT  Y.  COURT  OF  CHANCERY,  LINCOLN'S-INN,  APRIL  13.  M  Y  ST  ER  I  OUS  R  RI  A  GE.  An  application  was  made  to  the  Lord  Chancellor  to  commit  (lie  father  of  at  female,  recently  married  to  a  young:gentleman  of  fortune,  a  ward  in  Chancery,  and  also  the  clergyman  who  mar married  ried married  theta,  upon  the  ground  of  a  stipoo:  , STYLE=superscript  r(l  collusion.  It  appeared  that  the  v  (mug  gentleman  resided  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Ful Fulham,  ham, Fulham,  and  was  coitsidered  of  vt  - STYLE=superscript  ealt  mind  and  understanding,  and  that  a  corre.potitivitce  itad.  bvett  mitered  into  between  him  and  a  fenn:le  iii  the  ,au  le  neighbout  hnul  1,  v.  hoe  familv  wore  supposed  4#)  have  l  upon  s STYLE=superscript  kis  versitit  :111(1  1(1J  - STYLE=superscript  tune,  induced  the  hie(  d=  of  the  young  man  to  throw  a  shield  acmuul  him,  and  in infortuatiou  fortuatiou infortuatiou  %vas  given  to  the  citrates  of  the  &gt;orrottuding  villages  and  pari3Oes,  not  (0  1  ;1151i:11  1;ie0n.,(1...  matrimi  -  My  between  the  parties,  without  to:01'v  big  thi,  'an►e  to  the  t  i  ieu(l  , STYLE=superscript  of  the  young  getttlemnit.  N  low  it  {tieraution,  the  youug  folks  procurjd  the  :;olcutaizai.oL  sonrrtiLle  by  Lae  help  of  the  fa-  Cie  r  tile  lady  and  tit..!  elerg,nl  to  moved  in  the  neigh neighboerhood  boerhood neighboerhood  of  io  Kent,  and  for  w  itich  the  present  ap apyricat  yricat apyricat  ion  was  made.  Tire  Chancellor  directed  thy.  tuattl.r  to  stand  over  till  the  par parties  ties parties  implicaied  should  have  .ot  opportuffity  lit  rel)1  tor  by  atfi atfi(tat  (tat atfi(tat  it,  the  (:;:t-  m  ill  then  he  intl:  neat  11.  :old  the  particulars  amply  statrd,  tin  IA  ;ten  we  forie•tr  Itl  ,late  the  c:;tines.  L  %or  A  tj;;l:i'Vt  1:  I;  It  R.  %.  (di:reit:l.lC  1.41)Y  D  • STYLE=superscript  CIA  tiD  V.  tits  1400  DC.KE  OF  SUSsE..X..  A  i)etition  Pre;elili'd  tiii•  morning  by  Lads'  A  ugoita  Mtn  . STYLE=superscript  -  ,  otherss  i.e  again,t  his  Itti  the  Duke.  of  %%:ts  iilll.lfrv•Pile  04.  firorOie  object  of  it,  It  , STYLE=superscript  it  %\  I  4  riot  tivard  in  the  tpotal  ;say  hi  open  Coact,  but  privately  is  kk  eh:lmhof  - STYLE=superscript  .  A  liito•t  !ht  eminent  lawyer,  of  the  C.  u.crry  Bar  wow  ref:shied  the  iitii•  41:.  or  he  other,  viz.  Sir  4.l  , STYLE=superscript  tittel  .  Sir  A.  hoc-Ts.  Richard*,  Foublatizpits,  .Trotsarl,  1)711:101  , STYLE=superscript  :,  Tiwir  ar argtimenti  gtimenti argtimenti  lousing  run  into  len:th,  and  a  great  !wing  hi  hi  the  COlirt,  ii  ; STYLE=superscript  ,  whe  o STYLE=superscript  f STYLE=superscript  hi!  , STYLE=superscript  vtlicerS.  into  (;u:11•1  tai  inform  !two.  that  ths;  lit!,l lit!,l-  - lit!,l-  ‘s  eli  .  zaged  111  Ss  outs:  ot-eqp  v  t  re:t.,,incier  of  t  Ley  at:orditi4ly  diller,r4J.  Lai  :  A  11,;u:ta  sb.L,  it;  le  •  s  r  -.  .  •a  - STYLE=superscript  1.11116  , STYLE=superscript  AMP.  As.  255  attendance,  ith  tier  son  by  his  Ilighne-s  the  Dike  of  Stissex  ;  thei  were  in  The  ohject  of  the  Petition  is  •tippo‘vil  to  v  , STYLE=superscript  .l:ilt•  to  a  more  col:aged  e•tahlistonent  and  provi provision  sion provision  LtLull  :Lie  at  prcertit  :M00...!  by  hi.:  ito‘  al  nighties-.  OLD  BAILLI.  Sourcing,  April  15.  John  Carr  was  indicted  fur  feloniously  shooting  at  a  police  officer  of  the  name  of  Edward  Rice,  with  intent  to  kill  and  murder.  The  statement  of  the  prosecutor  went  to  prove  that  at  seven  o'clock  in  the  evening  of  the  19th  of  lebruary,V  ickery,  an  officer  belonging  to  Worship-street,  together  with  another  man,  accompanied  him  on  the  look  out  for  robbers,  in  Stepney-  Fields,  and  they  saw  the  prisoner  and  an  other  man  whom  they  suspected  as  being  fit  for  their  recognizance.  - STYLE=superscript  Vickery  took  one  man  into  custody,  and  the  prisoner  ran  oil'.  Rice  followed  him,  and  having  gained  ground  on  him,  the  prisoner  discharged  the  contents  of  a  pistol  at  him,  and  he  was  afterwards  taken.  Sir  Souicier  Lawrence  here  interfered,  and  directed  the  Jury  to  acquit  the  prisoner,  as  the  indictment  could  not  stand.  The  Officer  was  attempting  to  apprehend  the  prisoner  without  any  authority,  and  if  he  had  been  shot  it  would  only  have  amounted  to  manslaughter.  The  conduct  of  the  officers  was  illegal,  and  they  were  not  warranted  in  seizing  a  man  whom  they  choose  to  suspect.  The  Prisoner  was  consequently  acquitted.  Zekiel  Lochleader,  alias  Thurston,  and  Robert  Lochleader  (brothers)  were  indicted  for  stealing  a  mare,  valued  at  fourteen  guineas,  the  property  of  John  Ashley.  The  mare  was  stolen  from  a  stable  on  the  prosecutor's  pre premises  mises premises  at  Cudham,  in  Kent,  on  the  sth  of  March,  and  the  two  prisoners  were  found  in  possession  of  the  horse  and  a  cart,  which  had  also  been  stolen  in  Maiden-lane,  Battle-bridge,  on  the  sub subsequent  sequent subsequent  day.  The  facts  were  clear.  Guilty,—D  t:  A  Tit,  Three  other  brothers  of  the  prisoners  were  capitally  convicte4  of  horse-stealing,  at  the  late  Assizes  for  Cambridgeshire.  At  the  Middlesex  Sessions,  yesterday,  Dove,  the  map  who  was  arraigned  at  the  Old  Bailey  for  extreme  cruelty  towards  hi  stepfather,  by  putting  a  rope  round  his  neck,  ith  intent  to  strangle  him,  and  wounding  him  with  a  poker,  was  convicted  of  the  assault,  and  sentenced  to  three  years  imprisonment.  After  the  hardened  offender  was  taken  out  of  court  on  his  way  to  to  prison,  he  observed  thus  They  have  tried  to  put  the  rope  about  my  neck,  but  1  . STYLE=superscript  11  put  it  about  some  of  theirs  Mr.  Harman  an  Old  Bailey  solicitor  heard  this,  which  ho  com communicated  municated communicated  to  the  Court,  and  the  prisoner  was  consequently  brought  back  and  further  sentenced,  to  find  sureties  for  three  years  for  his  good  behaviour  after  the  expiration  of  his  jut jutprisontuent,  prisontuent, jutprisontuent,  himself  in  200/.  and  two  surities  of  10'Jt.  each.  The  following  melancholy  circumstance  lately  happened  at  Toseland,  in  llnntingdonshire  :—Nlr.  l)i,xie,Jun.faitner  or  that  place,  had  procured  a  quantity  of  arsenic  for  dre4sing  hie  sheep,  which  he  imprudently  left  in  a  paper  iu  a  maphoard  where  -the  flour  was  usually  kept.  On  Saturday  se'tmight  the  maid  servant  was  directed  to  make  a  pork  pudding.  Mr.  pixie  and  his  shop.  herd  coming  home  at  the  hour  of  dinner,  ate  heartily  of  the  Ind.  ding,  and  immediately  afterwards  the  maicl  also  hegan  to  eftl  of  it,  bat,  ou  finding  an  unpleasant  taste,  she  declined  eating  much,  which  her  master  observing,  enquired  what  was  the  matter,.  and  hoped  she  bad  not  put  any  of  the  powdar,  lett  in  the  paper,  Into  the  pudding.  The  girl  acknowledged  that  she  had,  with  real  sorrow  and  distress  of  mind,  conceiving  the  cuotents  of  the  paper  to  be  and  mixed  it  up  for  the.pniding„  iu  quantity  near  •  tea-cup  fall.  The  child,  nephew  to  Mr.  U.  on  finding  the  taste.  disagreeable,  would  not  eat  any.  Nlr.  Sanders,  surgeon  aid  apua  thecary,  of  St.  Neat's,  happening  to  be  in  the  village  at  the  flame  time,  was  instantly  called  in,  and  used  every  means  to  promote  sickness,  and  to  counteract  the  effects  of  the  arsenic  on  Mr.  9.  and  his  shepherd,  but  in  vain  ;  they  languished  for  about  eight  :.:curs,  and  died  within  a  few  minutes  of  each  other.  The  ma  l  4  servant  lies  in  a  very  dangerous  state,  though  nut  without  Welk  hopes  of  her  recovery.  •  D  I  El)  On  Sunday,  in  his  34th  year,  at  Wellingbnitingh,  North3mp.  tfinshire,  John  Arden,  Esq.  late.  Major  in  the  Thin.l.  or  Kluz's  msn  Dragoons,  and  eldest  son  of  the  late  Rev.  John  A  rdra,  qt  Lungeroft•hall,  Staffordshire.  Lately,  at  Hineklev,  Leirecter;hire,  :trier  a  :oil  it:):a  rift  whick  he  so  oported  %%W:  the  otiaost  i  crt  .  e  ;10  .  os  i  x  .  Hati9n,  fr:lnvis  Staplettul,  s:,ti  t.!  7  titaiiletuu,  Had  orial:ew  to  Lurd  Deenwriii.  .  •  •  :~~~  bus.  ..4  U'.1145  •  •  •  P15_TB00025 APRIL  16.  primitive  ;  or,  labouring  to  recent  cause  they  are  not  tube  reconciled  7  111.1111M11.11111111111111.1.111.11.11..' STYLE=superscript  0  we  ale,—  On  evil  days  though  fatten,  an  to  act  a  sarer,  better,  and  nobler  all,  that  is  religiously  essential,  lel  which  may  be  uoinportantly  core!  the  wor.l.i  of  one  of  the  few  wis  both  tiines  :  of  the  ancient  time,  latter  time,  what  is  lteasou,  equally  with  pruder  the  practice  we  ought  to  pursti  quire  or  concede  too  much.  1.1  vie  COn  V  illee  ;  and  content  sacredly  inelotownt,  whenever  wt  seriously  demonstrative.  Let  us  to  these  principles,  since  prineii  which,  originally  blending  Moses  Paganism  with  chrislianitv,  and  s  latton  over  the  face  of  the  nations  P15_TB00026 a  lt3t STYLE=superscript  l  ee STYLE=superscript  u  rd STYLE=superscript  e  t' STYLE=superscript  d  a  t  fo  a  r  teen  J  .:.  are,  perhaps  we  have  still  to  dread,  with  all  our  light,  the  to  manstauguter.  tate  COMIUUE  0  11 STYLE=superscript  reinthronement  of  political  despotism  and  religious  super-  they  were  not  warranted  in  seizing  a  man  stition.  mmlmrwi.eimiaame...~.rorafsrmass  C  0  NEIIMUS•  NV  11  I  C  CLUB.—A  Aleetin  , STYLE=superscript  of  this  Club  was  on  Tuesday  held  at  the  Freemason's  Tavern,  Samuel  Whitbread,  Esq.  in  the  Chair;  when,  after  the  regular  toasts  of  the  day,  the  attention  of  the  Meeting  was  called  to  the  late  proceedings  in  Parliament.  Mr.  Wardle  was  proposed  as  a  Member,  suspect.  (pbrrz.i  oseotkhni  ee  e  rrlsoLTwo:hc.  er  e  heriefii),  ituli(entidrc,  Prisoner  iteiai  dl  v  i  i  ra  •  t  z  s  :  sr  Thurston,cs(  t  o  e  n  a  s  e  l  q  i  n  t  t  g  e  n  a  t  l  ial  y  ina  n  dr  c  e  q  i,t  u  vo  i  guineas,  the  property  of  John  Ashl  s  e  l.  l;  %/UM('  i  z  'PT  SaU  ••••.re.•••,  ~..—.  whom  they  choose  to  Lochleader  The  mare  was  stolen  from  a  stable  on  the  prosecutor's  pre-  mises  at  Cudham,  in  Kent,  on  the  sth  of  March,  and  the  two  possession  of  the  horseand  a  cart,  which  had  also  been  stolen  in  Maiden-lane,  Battle-bridge,  on  the  sub-  and  ~  I  •  1.  I  .  )  several  Resolutions  were  unanimous!  yagreed  to.—  seq  Among  them,  a  Resolutioa  of  Thanks  was  passed  to  Mr.  We  rdie,  and  the  principal  -  Members  who  supported  the  late  of  tient  day.  The  facts  were  clear,  C  i  ...u_ltye--DEATII,  Three  other  brothers  of  the  prisoners  were  capitally  convicted  horse-stealing,  at  the  late  Assizes  for  Cambridgeshire.  :  declaringa  Reform  in  Parliament  b  y  acclamation.  a  LAI,'&#34;  REPORTY.  —.........  COURT  OF  CHANCERY,  LINCOLN'S-INN,  APRIL  13.  about  my  neck,  lout  I'll  put  it  about  some  of  theirs  4,  't  It  14.1  A  GE.  MYSTERIOUS  11  Mr.  Harman  an  Old  Bailey  solicitor  heard  this  , STYLE=superscript  which  ho  c  a STYLE=superscript  m  1  ,,, STYLE=superscript  -  A  leas  to  the  Lord  Chancellor  to  commit  eaunicated  to  the  Court,  and  the  prisoner  was  consequently  /  An  application  brought  back  and  , STYLE=superscript  further  sentenced,  to  find STYLE=superscript  sureties  for  three  tbe  (*Aber  of  a  female,  recently  married  to  a  young:gentleman  of  years  for  his  good  behaviour  after  the  expiration  of  his  int-  '  A  fortune,  a  ward  in  Cliancecy,  and  ails()  time  clergyman  who  mar-  h  prisonment,  himself  in  200/.  and  two  sureties  of  10J1.  each.  tied  (km,  upon  (he  ground  of  a  stepoo,fd  collusion.  It  appeared  ---------  ;  that  time  :some;  gentleman  re,ided  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Ful-  The  following  melancholy  circumstance  lately  happened  at  ham,  and  was  coosidered  of  o  - STYLE=superscript  ea  It  mind  and  understanding,  and  Toseland,  in  llnntingdonshire  :—Nlr.  i)i,xie,  jun.  'fat  mer  or  that  that  a  come-pondeoce  imad.  ht.  eim  emered  into  between  him  and  a  place,  had  procured  a  quautity  of  arsenic  for  dressiog  his  sheep,  ,  feae,lo  ill  the  7.a!!l'  - STYLE=superscript  '  Ileig!ititsttl  liflll  - STYLE=superscript  L,  S%  !1i1  4, STYLE=superscript  e  family  wore  supposed  which  he  imprudently  left  in  a  paper  iu  a  cupboard  where  the  to  have  de.igos  upon  Mmis  person  and  fortune.  This  induced  the  dour  was  usually  kept.  On  Saturday  se'tmight  the  maid  servant  11  filet  (1•4  of  the  young  man  to  throw  a  shield  armuul  him,  and  in-  was  was  g'i‘en  to  OW  CitrOle;  t  x  the  &gt;arrottoding  villages  was  directed  to  make  a  pork  pudding.  Mr.  Di  zit.  and  his  sheps  herd  coming  home  at  the  hour  of  dinner,  ate  heartily  of  the  pod•  and  p  av  i,o  e  s,  no  t  to  pnlilii,ll  I;meOn  , STYLE=superscript  am-  of  matrimony  between  the  ding,  and  immediately  afterwards  the  ()mai  d  also  began  to  eftl  a  4  parties,  I%  ithout  eetifNing  h.,  'amt.  to  the  cm  ieud  •  of  the  young  .  •  it,  bat,  ou  finding  an  unpleasant  taste,  she  declined  eating  mach,  v.  geutleman.  .);  utw  i  tlisueel  i  re;  tills  plerat.ttion,  the  Notting  folks  ,  r  which  her  master  observing,  engairt•d  what  was  the  ruatter  s  and  procured  the  :;oleitenzai  , STYLE=superscript  .!o  i.F  soarrnLlt•  h‘  the  help  of  the  fa-  hoped  she  had  not  put  any  of  the  pnwitar,  lett  in  the  paper,  Into  oer  ~r  the  lady  atal  tar.!  clerg,ra  ii)  movett  ii..!,;titit.  in  the  neigh-  the  pudding.  The  girl  acknowledged  that  she  had,  with  real,  bwrhooa  of  Tohibrid4e,  io  Kent,  and  for  w  hien  tile  present  ap-  sorrow  and  distress  of  mind,  conceiving  the  cootents  of  the  paper  privation  w  a  , STYLE=superscript  made.  to  be  11(,:r,  and  mixed  it  up  for  the.puiding„  in  quantity  near  a  !  Time  Chancellor  directed  the.  tnattl.r  to  stand  over  till  the  par-  -11  The  child,  nephew  to  Mr.  O.  on  loading  the  taste.  1  tie,  implitaNetti  should  hays.  ~n  ()NMI  . STYLE=superscript  '  Lit!l  I  V  tit'  rept%  J  ur  by  affi-  tea  - STYLE=superscript  cup  CLI STYLE=superscript  •  ,  disagreeable,  wonld  ,  not  eat  any.  Mr.  Sanders,  surgeon  and  apw.  ,  ,  t  ,  (la%  it,  the  c;lt-  :rill  thou  he  intl.'  Iseal  IL,  and  the  particulars  thecary,  of  St.  N  eat  s,  happening  to  be  in  the  village  at  the  same  amply  stated,  till  1.%  hen  we  l'or)e  tr  io  ,I:Lte  the  f:ante,.  time,  was  instantly  called  in,  and  used  every  means  to  promote  1.  %.  ne  AE  ;;  uST  t  17.0  RR  ;'i,  idi:fe(:biC  1.4  I)  Y  D  • STYLE=superscript  .).  M  EL).  ND  tt.  sickness  ,  and  to  counteract  the  effects  of  the  arsenic STYLE=superscript  on  Mr.  D.  WO  S  HY  11!GuEki  Ns  '1111.;  DC.KE  of:  s  and  his  t'SsE.k.  shepherd,  but  in  vain  ;  they  languished  for  about  eight  es  of  her  recovery.  -i;  I  ra  , STYLE=superscript  ,,  otherw  i-e  D'  ‘ameltori,  again-  t  his  Itmal  II  ighnes  , STYLE=superscript  4  the  1)  i  l STYLE=superscript  i  '‘ STYLE=superscript  lt(  l STYLE=superscript  :  e STYLE=superscript  u  t STYLE=superscript  f  i STYLE=superscript  :::::-,e  ii STYLE=superscript  r..  4 STYLE=superscript  .  4 STYLE=superscript  I STYLE=superscript  ;  r STYLE=superscript  t  e STYLE=superscript  :7::  P STYLE=superscript  i  ( STYLE=superscript  t  i STYLE=superscript  n  tpifili1111;:colilll':::::  d  i STYLE=superscript  t  ‘ STYLE=superscript  i  :  7 STYLE=superscript  c  l STYLE=superscript  :  1 STYLE=superscript  :e:  1 STYLE=superscript  o:  f STYLE=superscript  ie::  of  it,  a  , STYLE=superscript  it  was  not  heard  in  the  u,nal  55:1v  in  open  ttylrt,  hut  privately  iii  his  Lord•hiv's  ehamber.  Almo•t  Ai  the.  eminent  lawyers  of  the  C  hancery  Bar  ti  ere  retaioed  on  mime  Mil'  , STYLE=superscript  j  , STYLE=superscript  IC'  or  :  s  ;:  r  u  v  r  a  s  l  ,  lt  a  i  n  i  d  es  cl  i  i  n  ed  a  vo  v  '  t  i  .  t  r  l  y  titt  a  few  minutes  of  each  other,  The  mal4  ho  d  angerous  state,  though  nut  without  wok  ..  r  ._—_,  D  LLD  On  Sunday,  in  his'  4th  year,  at  Wellingbririiogh,  North3Mps•  the  oilier,  viz.  Sir  S.laimtel  IZimmimill  .  Sir  A.  Pigett,  I,;es.;rs.  tfinshire,  John  Arden,  Esq.  late  Major  in  the  '!  T  hird.  or  Mine.  ;  Richards,  Funldanq  'froward,  ue,  1)711:jells,  ft,'.l  .  .1  (1  I:'ir  ar-  1%  n  Dragoons,  and  eldest  son  of  the  late  Rev.  John  Arde  , STYLE=superscript  o,  of  glimell  I  i  ha%  iqg  rim  into  lea:  I  Ii)  and STYLE=superscript  a  great  Mali  i  . STYLE=superscript  tint  tu.'•  !wiug  longeroft-hall,  Staffordshire.  ha  ,  in  niten.lhnee  ia  the  Court,  hi:,  I.oril-111p  S'llt  One  Of  hi!'  l'threrSi  Latt  ly,  at  Hinckley,  Leicester  hire,  after  a  Intl  anA  pietist  alealt  toel  ve  o'elm.k,  into  Cnatt  1.,  loform  then,  that  th.;  11  , STYLE=superscript  !:.1-  1  illues!.,  which  he  so  oported  st  ith  the  uthmost  pal  icet  eas  ;Obit  g  o  ilh`i  is  hill  he  is  a:  cil  .  zawf  Ila  st  outs:  at  eqp  vi  he  re:nail:der  of  the  '  tuition,  Will:am  fr;tocis  Stapleton,  -eciahl  s:  , STYLE=superscript  ti  i.f  Ni.-  1  - STYLE=superscript  1  1  t  ,  nil  ....  t.  ,  ~,,,f  ;  (  ,  dit,  :mud  they  aturdinily  dinmersrd.  Lad  ,  :I  11,;u:ta  wa,  Mu  Stapletuu,  and  or  k  il:ew  to  Lurd  Le  peenserik.  ......,:  .  ,  t  •  ..  .  .4.  5.......—....._s  .......—....._  ....  .  •.  ..  a...zr..Z*  - STYLE=superscript  1.6411V  4941,111.•  Asirly  -  -•-  ./.  •  •  1  !ii  ,‘t  .'  .!‘  ...  /  .  ,  .  ..;  h.  —•,.  .‘  1  Ima.  ...1  1,-.•  -.ill  ..  .  :.4  ...I  -  V  •  .  ..  '  •  •  .."
