text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  The  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  said,  he  was  happy  to  find  that  the  Noble  Lord  (Lord  Folkestone)  had  - STYLE=superscript  attributed  whatever'  there  wasof  obscurity  in  this  Bill,  to  the  derive  of  making  it  as  comprehensive  as  possible.  lie  was  also  glad  that  the  Nobla  Lord  had  admitted  that  the  Iiill•would  render  the  commission  of  thestoilences  more  difficult  in  future.  As  to  the  purchase  and•  sale.  of  places  connected  with  the  Courts  of  Justice,  that  had  prevailed  from  very  remote  times,  but  he  believed  that  it  woold  not  be  said  that  the  practice  at  all'interfered  with  the  levity  of  the  administration  of  ,justice.  As  to  what  hail  been  sugge:ted  with  respect  tothe  prevention  of  the  tratlie  for  seats  in  Parlia Parliament,  ment, Parliament,  this  would  be  a  matter  which  might  fairly  he  stated  when  the  Bill  should  come  into  a  Committee.  -  If  the  .Noble  •  Lord  or'  lion.  Gentleman  would  then  brine  lot  ward  any  proposiSton  of  that  sort,  the  house  would  be  vt‘ry  ready  to  take  it  into  their  consideration.  The  Noble  Lord  had  stated  his  firm  belief  of  the  existence  of  such  transactions,  and  the  lion.  Gentleman  had  gone  further,  and  stated,  that  it.  was  with  in  his  atisolute  knowledge.  The  lion.  Gentleman  to  be  sure,  might  have  some  , STYLE=superscript  knowleflgel  from  the  confidence  %s  tile!)  was  reposed  in  him  by  the  bite  Ad.  ministration,with  whom  lie  was  connected  Lead  cries  el  kyr  !  hear  !  )  Ile  could  not  recollect,  however,  that  that  Hon.  Gen Gentleman  tleman Gentleman  (Mr.  Creevey)  had,  at  the  tithe  when  a  specific  charge  wits  brought  against  a  Secretary  of  the  Treasury  for  such  inter interference  ference interference  given  the  House  the  beeelit  of  his  knowledge.  The  House  would  perceive,  'that  the  rest-  he  alluded  to  'iris  wfien  a  charge  was  brought  against  a  Seirteary  of  the  .Treasury  (Mr.  l'remantle)  for  interference  in  the  election  of  Ilempshire,  where  he  was  undoubtedly  a.freeholder.  T  he'll  on.  Gent!emanelil  not  then  tell  the  House  a  word  of  that  practice  which  was  within  hisown  knowledge,  of  S.•cretaries  of  the  Treesury  corruptly  in interfering  terfering interfering  in  the  election  of  Members  of  Padia:nent.  When  he  had  that  knowledge,  how  did  it  happen  that  his  patriotism  was  asleep  on  that  remarkable  occasion  ?—(  Heat:  !  hear  !)  If  he  would,  however,  then  bring  foreard  impartially  those  specific  cases  that  were  within  his  own  knowledge,  lie  would  probably  find  the  Ilouse  very  ready  to  attend  to  them.  Mr.  Whitby(  a  I  said,  that  he  wens  happy  that  the  suggestio:s  of  his  Noble  and  I  [on.  Friends  appeared  to  be  received  with  so  much  cordiality  by  the  Right  Hun.  Genthonan  (the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer),  and  that  it  seemed  to  he  admitted  that  the  practice  of  trafficking  for  seats  iu  Parliament  was  a  thing  which  ought  not  to  be  tolerated.  He  supposed  that  when  the  Rigll  lion.  Gentleman  (the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer)  called  upon  an  Hon.  Friend  of  his  (air.  Creevev),  to  bring  one  set  of  cases  before  the  Douse,  he  was  also  really  to  practise  that  impartia impartiality  lity impartiality  which  he  recommended,  and  brio;  forward  those  cases  which  were  within  his  knowledge.  (ticar  !  Hear!  )  It  was  nonsense.  to  pretend  to  he  ignerant  of  those  abuses.  What  Member  of  Parliament  was  there  that  djd  not  know  thatsuch•things  were  done  ?  '  Did  not  he  know,  did  tot  the  Right  hon.  Gentleman  know,  did  not  every  body  in  the  House  know',  that  there  were  many  Members  who  sat  there,  that  were  Representatives  of  nothing  but  their  own  money  ?  (  Loud  cri::&gt;  of  hear,  hcar,  /;.one  the  Opposition  I,e  nches  !  )  And  it  was  a4so  known  that  many  who  had  paid  their  money  cur  their  seat,:  shill  felt  themselves  depen dependent  dent dependent  on  other  men,  and  if  they  differed  from  them  felt  those  qualms  of  conscience  or  of  hoimur  which  made.  them  vacate  both  the  seat  and  the  meney  they  had  paid  for  it.  It  was  not  certainly  any  char  te  e'.  agaihst  the  present  Administratioi  .to  state  dp  e.:  thites  ,  for  the  charge  applied  as  well  to  him  and  to  other  Member  of  the  ilitesta  lang  known  that  those  things  were  done,  and  '  wc  t  newer  brought  it  forward  to  Parliament  in  a  proper  shape..  A  3  to  •the  case  of  the  Hampshire  election,  the  Right  Moo:treble.  Geetieman  (the  Chancellor  el  the  Es.chequer)  happened  ahout  that  time  to  a  very  short  pt:rtion  of  Ilk  lice,  to  be  in  a  Minaritse  He  (hlr.  Whitbread:  had  been  for  l  9  years,  generally  in  a  Minority,  and  theteforh  he'  was  very  apt  to  think  Minorities  right  ;  bat  the  Right  [lon.  Gentleman  ho  had  been  so  seldom  in  a  Minorite.  to  that  aloe  c,  should  rather  be  inclined  to  suspect  that  he  was  w  roue  when  headed  so  contrary  to  his  usual  prectice.  Without  however,  meaning  to  arraieu  any  particuler  Secretary  of  the  'treasury,  he  would  state  generally,  teat  under  the  present  system  all  Secretaries  of  the  Trensury  had  themselves  under  the  necessity  of  acting  iu  this  marmer,  and  there  is  always  an  open  market  at  the  Treasury  for  bargains  of  this  nature.  If,  however,  the  House  was  disposed  to  make  it  a  misdemeanour  to  trallic  for  East  India  Writerships  and  Cadetships,  they  should  certainly  take  some  notice  of  a  tralfe:  which  was  equally  as  notorices,  hut  more  scandalous  and  enconstitutihnal.  if  tire  itiabt  lion.:.'  emir  man  would  appeal  to  his  until:,  neiehbour  (  Lord  Castlereagh)  that  Noble  Lord  would  inform  him  that  iu  11  - STYLE=superscript  eta:id,  about  a  in  i  lion.and  a  half  had  been  paid  for  the  puichase  of  Boron  \"
