text
"BANKRUPTS.  Thomas  Frow,  Mablethorpe,  Lincoln,  innholder,  to  surrender  March  9,  10,  and  25,  at  eleven,  at  the  Saracen's  Head  Inn,  Lin Lincoln.  coln. Lincoln.  Attornies,  Mr.  Baldwin,  Lincoln  ;  and  Mr.  Spencer,,  Lamb's  Conduit-street.  William  Fairbridge,  Gough-square,  Fleet-street,  Feb.  16  March  1,  and  25,  nt  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  lllr.  Brace,,  New  Boswell-court,  Cary-street.  Henry  Cattell,  Duke-street,  Worship-square,  .  Middlesex,  silk-manufacturer,  Feb.  18,  23,  at  twelve,  and  March  23,  at  at  one,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Come,  Austin-friars.  Thomas  Wood  and  George  Wood,  Kirkby-Malzeard,  York,  butchers,  Feb.  27,  28,  at  eleven,  at  the  Queen's  Head  Inn,  Kirk Kirkhy-Malzeard,  hy-Malzeard, Kirkhy-Malzeard,  and  March  23,  at  eleven,  at  the  Black  Swan  Inn,  Bedale,  York.  Attornies;  Mr.  Coates,  Ripon,  York  ;  and  Me•srs.  Lod  ington  and  Hall,  Secondaries-office,  Temple.  .John  Salter,  Bermondsey  New  Road,  carpenter,  Feb.  21,  28,  and  March  at  one,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Meymott,  Burro  ws-buildings,  Blackfriars-road.  John  Coates  Philipps,  Bunkhouse,  York,  cotton-spinner,  Feb.  24,  25,  and  March  25,  at  eleven,  at  the  Devonshire  Arms,  Keighley,  York.  Attoruies,  Mr.  Hardacre,  Coble,  Lancaster;  and  Mr.  IVigglesworth,  Gray's  Inn.  Thomas  Boardman,  jun.  Manchester,  liquor-merchant,  March  3,4,  at  two,  at  the  Dog  Tavern,  Deansgate,  Manchester,'  and  March  25,  at  two,  at  the  Castle  of  Lancaster.  Attornies,  Messrs.  Foulkes  and  Creswell,  Manche  •ler  ;  and  MessrsE  Foulkes  and  Longdill,  Gray's  Inn,  London.  Sarah  Lvaus,  Wolverhampton,  carpenter,  March  6,  at  Our  * STYLE=superscript  TiEB.  12.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  107  7,  at  ten,  and  25,  at  eleven,  at  the  Jerningham  Arms  Inn,  Shiffnall.  Shropshire.  Attornies,  Mr.  hiddle,  Wolverhampton;  and  Messrs.  Smart  and  Thomas,  Staple's  Inn.  Thomas  Scott,  Thaningtou,  Kent,  victualler,  Feb.  23,  at  seven,  2.1,  and  March  ?*),  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall,  Canterbury.  Attornie:i,  Mr.  Elwyn,  Canterbury  ;  and  Mr.  Dyne,  Sedeant's-  Joseph  Connop  and  Coleman  Levy  Newton,  Red  Lion-street,  Spitaltield  , STYLE=superscript  :,d3ers.,  Feb.  18,  at  eleven,  28,  and  March  25,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Alliston,  Freeman's-court,  Corn Cornhill.  hill. Cornhill.  William  Enstace,  Little  Carter-lane,  Doctor's-Commons.  cabinet-maker,  Feb.  21,  28,  and  Mardi  23.  at  one,  at  GLOW GLOWhall.  hall. GLOWhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  White  Sweet,  King's-Bench-Walks,  Temple.  William  Brown,  Wormwood-street,  London-Wall,  victualler,  Feb.  15.  2  , STYLE=superscript  1,  and  March  25,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Taylor,  Craven-street.  John  Horne  Clark,  Saint  James's-street,  milliner,  Feb.  18,  21,  and  Mardi  25,  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Chambers,  l'urnival's-Inn.  The  object  of  the  Proprietors  is  to  put  the  British  Commu Community  nity Community  in  possession  of  faithful  Portraits  and  Characters  of  the  principal  l't•rronages  of  the.  ILLUSTRIOUS  HOUSE  OF  BRUNSWICK  ;  but  as  their  103  - STYLE=superscript  al  intentions  cannot  be  accom accomplished  plished accomplished  with  their  confined  resonrces,  they  have  resolved,  though  still  abandoning  all  idea  of  profit,  to  charge  Sixpence  for  each  impression,  to  those  who  become  Subscribers  or  purchase  the  National  Register.  Immediate  orders  should  be  sent  to  the  Office,  No.  11,  Catherine-stre:q,  Strand,  or  given  to  the  News Newsmen,  men, Newsmen,  Booksellers,  or  Clerks  of  the  Roads,  so  that  the  Proprietors  may  he  able  to  estimate  the  number  of  impressious  likely  to  be  wanted.  This  Series  will  form  a  Set  of  Pictures  of  the  Illustrious  House  of  Brunswick,  worthy  the  Drawing  Room  or  the  Ca Cabinet,  binet, Cabinet,  and  will  render  the  National  Register  particularly  va valuable,  luable, valuable,  as  presenting  the  only  complete  and  authen;i::  Collection  of  Portraits  of  the  Royal  Family  extant,  the  Original  Paintings  having  been  lent  by  some  of  the  Princesses  to  the  Proprietors  for  their  use  alone.  A  few  proof  imprevvions  on  India  paper  may  he  had,  price  I'►►ur  Shillings:  second  proof  impressions,  Tees  Shillings  and  Sixpence,  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  IL  onba  il  l  SUNDAY,  FEBRUARY  12,  1809.  POLITIC4L  EVENTS  OF  THE  WEEK.  We  received  yesterday  Lisbon  Papers  to  the  29tfi  ultimo.  Their  contents  arc  interesting.  The  retreat  of  the  British  and  Spanish  armies  was  known  there;  'and  an  invasion  from  the  French  was  consequently  expected  ;  but  the  inhabitants  appear  to  be  animated  with  a  firm  resolu resolution  tion resolution  to  oppose  the  most  vigorous  resistance.  AU  the  pro provinces  vinces provinces  were  arming  for  that  purpose;  and  the  enthusiasm  of  the  inhabitants  was  so  great,  that  the  single  province  of  Beisa  had  already  collected  an  armed  force  of  more  than  70,000  men:  viz.  30,975  fusiieers  ;  39,803  pikemen,  and  118  cavalry.  The  fortified  places  on  the  frontiers  were  put  in  a  respectable  state  of  defence,  and  were  amply  sup supplied  plied supplied  with  warlike  stores  and  provisions.  This  generoul  resolution  of  defending  their  country  is  not  confined  to  any  particular  district;  but  appears  to  be  adopted  by  the  whole  nation.  The  cities  of  Oporto  and  Lisbon  give  a  praise praiseworthy  worthy praiseworthy  example  to  the  rest  of  the  kingdom,  and  every  effort  was  made  to  render  the  positions  in  the  neighbour neighbourhood  hood neighbourhood  of  the  capital  as  formidable  as  possible;  for  which  purpose  70  pieces  of  cannon  had  been  taken  from  the  arsenal,  to  be  mounted  on  the  most  important  points  of  defence.  No  mention  is  made  of  the  British  fume  under  Sir  JoaN  CRADDOCK  ;  but  we  trust  our  troops  will  not  abandon  the  country  as  long  as  the  Portuguese  manifest  a  resolution  of  defending  themselves.  -;  •  1  The  Regency  have  published  a  most  animated  proclama proclamation  tion proclamation  addressed  to  the  Portuguese  people.  They  do  not  conceal  the  dangers  to  which  the  .  country  is  exposed,  nor  the  talents,  vigour,  and  rapidity  of  the  enemy.  This  spi spirited  rited spirited  appeal  to  the  feelings  and  honour  of  the  nation  Thus  concludes:—Portuguese  be  soldiers,  repulse  the  Satei Satei•'  •' Satei•'  lites  of  the  tyrant,  who,  in  common  with  the  tyg-er,  can  never  be  satiated  with  blood  and  courage.  Be  deaf  to  the  intimations  of  corrupt  emissaries,  who  endeavovred,to  unnerve  your  energy,  and  diffuse  terr.;r_  and  distrust.  6 STYLE=superscript  4 STYLE=superscript  Valour  and  fidelity  form  the  distinctive  character  of  the  Dy  your  fidelity  you  have  preserved,  since  the  P11_TB00014 '  1  1 STYLE=superscript  ,  ,  ,  .i  . STYLE=superscript  \  1  '  +  ,  ,'&#34;•,'  ti..  „,  ,t  tl  /j  ii  e STYLE=superscript  ,  t STYLE=superscript  /1  ..,,.'  11  \k  ~  V  P STYLE=superscript  ..11  :  )  , STYLE=superscript  ‘fl  . STYLE=superscript  '  .  ./.:1:.  C'  '  •  ..,,,f  t  t  i'  ..,z  .{  ,.  ...  fi4C  &#34;'...  :4  ~,  '.'  %,  '  til  • STYLE=superscript  :/)  ,  ?:.  f.,..,"
