text
"E  ~~)  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  Them  nre  some  notices,  of  the  highest  interest,  in  these  papers,  tdative  to  Prussia.  The  KIN  and  gurEN  of  PRVORI  A  left  Petcrshurgh  on  the  31st  of  January,  and  ar arrived  rived arrived  in  Aletnel  after  nine  day's  journey.  Their  departure  frtont  that  city,  where  they  had  taken  their  residence  as  long  its  Kenitigsberg,  ivas  occupied  by  the  French,  is  not  mention mentioneel,  eel, mentioneel,  •  The  Prussian  army,  which  was  supposed  to  be  Mll Mllinlnted,  inlnted, Mllinlnted,  sic  are  happv  to  find,  amounts  to  42,600  men  4he  guards  amount  to  6000,  the  other  field  regiments  to  00,000,  and  the  brigades  of  Artillery  to  6090.  Ilis  Puoi.-  0;  AN  111.0tsly  has  issued  orders  to  inspect  the  fortresses  M  Neirete  in  Silesia,  and  Spandau,  and  to  supply  them  with  ortilleey  4  ammunition,  and  provisions.  ' STYLE=superscript  l  ' STYLE=superscript  W  !‘lagiStrateS  or  11w  different  provinces  have  also  been  enjoined  to  make  returns  of  the  number  of  men  fit  for  service,  if  we  compare  these  accounts  with'those  of  the  migration  of  -the  most  distinguished  personages  from  Berlin,  for  Ko Kopingsberg,  pingsberg, Kopingsberg,  we  indulge  the  pleasing  hope,  that  the  KING  of  itAINUA  is  not  indaerent  to  the  tempest  which  menaces  Austria  ;  and  that  experience  has  taught  him  the  danger  and  Macy  of  his  former  conduct,  when  that  power  was  overwhelmed  by  the.  French.  Ile  was  the  next  victim  !it'd  he  will  be  59  42;a  in  ,  should  the  same  fate  await  AdSirill.  DrtiifilCiion  in  one  case  is  unavoidable;  in  the  other,  it  Wray  be  averted  by  energy,  promptitude,  and  decision.  A  drendful  fermentation  exists  in  every  province  of  Prussia.  Secret  associations  exist  in  every  town,  formed  on  the  same  plan,  but  with  a  different  object  in  view,  as  those  were,  some  year%  ago,  in  Ireland.  They  ale  instituted  for  the  purpose  of  reasserting  the  independence  of  the  State,  re-es re-estahtising  tahtising re-estahtising  the  honour  and  fame  of  the  Prussian  arms,  and  residing  the  exactions  of  the  enemy.  The  dis!resses  of  the  State,  and  the  consequent  dismission  or  it  number  of  persons,  who  tilled  civil  and  military  offices,  And  lived  in  opulence,  have  deprived  of  resources  and  em-  ,  ployment  a  vast  number  of  individuals,  who  arc  capable  and  trilling,  from  despair,  to  form  the  most  hardy  and  des desperate  perate desperate  enterprises.  This  sentiment  is  not  peculiar  to  that  order  of  men  alone;  the  interruption  of  commerce  has  Ming  not  of  bread  a  number  of  3oung  men,  who  were  em employed  ployed employed  in  the  counting-houses  and  warehouses  of  the  mer merchant  chant merchant  and  manufacturer.  Their  distress  and  abandonment  Mild  be  deplorable.  Besides  these,  there  is  a  third  class  of  perform,  whose  situation  is,  if  possible,  still  more  lament lamentable  able lamentable  they  consist  of  such  as  filled  civil  offices  in  the  Polish  provinces  ceded  to  Saxony,  and  in  thone  which  form  a  part  of  the  Xingdom  of  Westphalia.  They  were  all  discharged  Pont  their  ;aces,  and  dismissed  to  their  former  homes.  we  rellect  on  the  feelings  of  those  victims,  pining  in  trifeey  and  inaction,  or  roving  about  as  vagabonds  in  a  which  they  incc  honoured  by  their  talents,  or  en  , STYLE=superscript  felt-rd  h  their  industry,  we  cannot  but  suppose  that  their  Owls  fire  wyrked  'up  to  a  delirium,  which  must  produce  SiMie  ifefilCndons  convulsion.  War  with  France,  assist assist'nCe  'nCe assist'nCe  to  Austria,  freedom  sand  the  ancient  order  of  things,  mug  he  the  sentiment  and  the  cry  of  these  unfortunate  people,  They  have  nothing  more  to  lose  but  a  trouble-  OM  existence,  and  they  have  the  prospect  of  regain  , STYLE=superscript  log  *bat  they  lost.  Should  the  PacFsi  %N  Kiwi,  through  Per  Of  ilehision,  attempt  to  resist  the  forcible  current  of  psiblie  opinion,  and  not  make  an  effort  on  the  side  of  Anfilrin,  in  this  last  struggle  for  independence,  a  popular  to/Motion,  with  all  its  excesses,  is  unavoidable.  The  minds  of  the  Germans  tare  bee;i  for  some  time  brooding  MARCH  5,  over  this  idea,  and  are  familiarised  to  its  horrors.  Utile  monarchy  is  to  be  preserved,  the  inclinations  of  the  people  must  not  be  resisted.  We  have  seen  publications,  which  lately  appeared  in  that  country  ;  they  contain  bold,  mys mysterious  terious mysterious  allusions,  which  evince  their  tendency,  and  betray  their  rancorous  abhorrence  of  the  enemy.  These  are  pub pubfished  fished pubfished  and  circulated  clandestinely  ;  and  they  breathe  the  most  fervent  wishes  for  German  independence.  Under  these  circumstances  nothing  would  be  more  easy  than  to  orgznize  a  great  military  force,  and  no  country  upon  earth  has  a  greater  facility  of  doing  it,  where  there  are  so  many  officers,  at  present  unemployed,  and  where  al almost  most almost  every  man,  from  the  former  spirit  and  institutions  of  the  monarchy,  is  a  soldier.  The  same  facility,  the  same  spirit,  the  same  motives  exist  throughout  the  northern  part  of  Germany  ;  and  if  the  genius  and  courage  of  the  Govern-,  ment  march  on  the  same  height  with  the  inclinations  of  the  inhabitants,  the  independence  of  Europe  may  be  still  pre preserved,  served, preserved,  Dutch  Papers  to  the  19th,  and  Paris  Papers  to  the  15th,  were  received  on  Wednesday.  According  to  the  compulsory  statements  of  these  Journa:s,  and  in  conformity  with  the  artful  policy  of  the  tyrant,  the  highest  degree  of  enthu enthusiastic  siastic enthusiastic  joy  is  manifested  by  all  descriptions  of  persons  in  the  provinces  occupied  by  the  French,  at  the  accession  of  the  Pseudo-King,  JOSEPH.  Congratulatory  addresses,  and  marks  of  homage  are  poured  in  from  every  town  and  village  of  the  Peninsula,  in  consequence  of  this  fortunate  event.  The  usurper  is  stated  to  have  entered  Madrid  on  the  22d  of  January,  amidst  the  loudest  acclamations  and  the  most  un unfeigned  feigned unfeigned  transports  of  the  inhabitants,  who  assembled  in  im immense  mense immense  crowds  to  hail  the  auspicious  return  of  their  beloved  Sovereign.  All  the  pageantry  .  of  religion  and  arms,—To  Dow?,  and  fixed  bayonets,  ringing  of  bells,  and  discharges  ofartillery,—priests  in  pontificals  and  lighted  matches,—,  contributed  to  render  this  scene  awfully.,  we  may  say  hori horibly,  bly, horibly,  impressive.  As  a  proof  of  the  established  tranquillity  and  confidence  his  Majesty  is  represented,  on  the  entering  the  place  tie  las  Delicius,  to  have  mounted  on  horseback,  and  proceeded  in  that  manner,  amidst  the  acclamations  of  the  people,  through  the  several  streets  to  the  church  of  St.  Isidore;  but  every  street,  every  place  and  corner  were  oc occupied  cupied occupied  and  lined  with  an  immense  host  of  armed  men  ;  whilst  the  sacred  person  of  the  beloved  JOSEPH  was  sur.;  rounded  by  .a  swarm  of  Aides-de-Camp,  Major-domos,  gen gentlemen  tlemen gentlemen  of  the  Bed-chamber,  Equerries,  and  a  long  etcetera  of  titled  knaves,  and  dignified  scoundrels,  preceeded  and  fol;  lowed  by  a  formidable  body  of  cavalry.  This  cautious  page pageantry,  antry, pageantry,  this  terific  ceremony,  this  mixture  of  confidence  and  alarm,  this  terrible  apparatus  of  a  detested  Usurper,  march marching  ing marching  through  the  streets  of  a  distracted  and  desperate  pen,  1  , STYLE=superscript  le,  arc  foisted  upon  the  unthinking  populace  of  France,  :14  the  gay  demonstrations,  and  the  ordinary  ceremonies  of  a  happy  .people,  hailing  the  return  of  a  beloved  Monarch  !  Compare  this  account  with  the  letter  of  the  infamous  MoaLs  !  How  eloquently  that  traitor  paints  the  indignation,  the  rage,  the  convulsion  of  the  generous  inhabitants  of  the  capital,  at  the  bare  mention  of  capitulation  to  the  detested  enemy;  and,  wonderful,  auspicious  conversion  !  this  indignant,  this  outraged  people  arc  suddenly  changed  into  silent  slaves,  or  a  shouting  rabble.  Silent  and  de dejected;  jected; dejected;  and  petrified,  •we  willingly  believe  them  to  have.  been  att  he  appearance  of  the  Medusa  head  of  the  loathsome  stranger;  and  if  thr,horrid  silence  has  been  interrupted,  it  has  been  broken  by,the  execrations  and  murmurs,  and  heart-rending,.  desperate  .;ahrieks  of  the  good,  and  the  patriotic.  To  crowli  the  nauseous  recapitulation,  the  Ty Tyrant  rant Tyrant  lactated,  on  ffiltefing  the  church,  and  appearing  be before  fore before  the.  -Altar  of  the  OMNIPOTENT,  the  searcher  of  hearts,  and  the  avcpgor  of  outraged  innocence,  to  have  said  , STYLE=superscript  •••  protcsi  Then,  before  God,  who  knows  the  hearts,  that  it  .••  -  •  P10_TB00008 WI  •  t  •  ~•.  Ty  •  9 STYLE=superscript  '  3  c  3  ,  a.  °  P10_TB00009 111"
