text
"FEB.  14•  .lect  of  abuses,  in  whateyer  department  they  1113  V  exist,  or  even  said  to  exist,  is  become  the  subject  of  Parliamen Parliamentary  tary Parliamentary  inquiry,  whether  the  facts  be  substantiated  or  not  ;  whether  the  charges  originate  in  the  vengeance  of  a  &amp;cal  d ded  ed ded  mistress  ;  or  the  whole  business  be  the  result  of  private  inalce,  or  the  !ow  inttigues  of  a  few  obscure  individuak— individuakwe  we individuakwe  still  consider  it  of  the  highest  importance  and  of  indis indispensible  pensible indispensible  necessity,  to  institute  frequent  inquiries  of  this  na nature.  ture. nature.  Ab  ases  do  exist  in  every  government  and  the  great greatest  est greatest  vigilance  can  scarce  prevent  their  accumulation.  The  individual,  therefore,  who  has  the  coura:,e  to  conic  forward  and  expose  them,  whatever  be  his  motives,  is  iri iridabted  dabted iridabted  to  the  thanks  of  the  ;  as  he  serves  to  keep  alive  that  suspicious  jealousy  of  men  clothed.  ‘vith  power,  who,  unfortunately,.  have  too  st  r  -, STYLE=superscript  A;;;  a  bias  and  too  much  interest,  to  convert  it  to  their  own  list  and  that  (3$  their  dependents,  to  the  grat  detriment  of  the  commtukity.  We  P13_TB00004 .•  l  l  11  ‘ STYLE=superscript  repeat  it  again  that  the  man  who  attacks  malversations,  of  sing  the  abwve  - STYLE=superscript  Bill  with  the  amendments  which  had  bee  any  kind,  is  entitled  to  the  thanks  and  protection  of  the  public  ;  and  however  mortifying  an  inquiry  of  this  nature  may  be  to  the  illustrious  personage  whose  conduct  is  the  object  of  it,  as  he  must  be  convinced  however,  that  these  charges  cannot  affect  him,  he  should  consider  himself  in-  debted  to  Mr.  'WARDLE,  for  Navin;  Le  brought  them  made  by  the  House  of  Representatives,  and  on  Monda  n STYLE=superscript  y  the  Government  would  take  measures  for  carrying  it  into  .  immediate  effect.  'The  Non-Intercourse  Act  is  the  next  subject  of  Cane  gressional  consideration.  The  returns  of  the  Electoral  Votes  for  the  Preeident  f  a  i  r  ly  be-  'and  Vice-President  were  completed,.  and  stand  as  follows.;  e  l  ilr  i  )  fore  the  public.  For  the  i  I STYLE=superscript  ItUstOENT.  — STYLE=superscript  J.  Madison,  1.22  ;  C.  Pinckney',  45.;  G.  Clinton,  6.  .  - STYLE=superscript  ...  - STYLE=superscript  .:.i...........VTi  1.,i  V  ter:-  I'  u  us  1  orvT.—G.  Clinton,  113  ;  Rufus  King,  48  ;J.  Hatnburgh  and  Altona  Papers  have  been  received  to  Longden,  9  ;  Madison,  3;  Munroe.  1.  ..  the  2SIli  ult.  They  contain  some  further  particulars  re-  course  Messrs.  Madison  and  Clinton  were  httive  to  the  late  insurrection  in  Constantinople  ;  but  are  .  Intelligence  is  said  to  have  arrived  of  the  relinquishment  not  sufficiently  explicit,  so  as  to  enable  us  to  form  even  a  of STYLE=superscript  the  Expedition  against  Martinique.  The  previous  in  - STYLE=superscript  conjecture  relative  to  the  present  state  of  the  Ottoman  .  formation  of  the  succours  thrown  into  the  !shunt  had  . STYLE=superscript  4  ' STYLE=superscript  .  i  Capital,  We  are  informed  that  MusTaenA  IlAtietterArt  is  prepared  us  for  this  account.  .  1,  i  eertainly  dead  ;  but  not  the  s  li  g  h  test  intellie•ence  is  com-  -6  s-,  manic:lied,  whether  the  party  he  org  anised  is  still  in  possession  of  power,  or  his  projects  of  reform  are  pursued  by  the  Divan.  On  these  material  points  they  guard  the  most  impenetrable  silence.  As  the  Vienna  1  1 STYLE=superscript  Gazette  never  fails  to  take  a  particular  notice  of  the  oc-  etirrences  in  the  Ottoman  Empire;  and  as  the  late  events  ,  eti  N  n  S  i  r  s  e  ta  a  n  r  c  e  e  c  s.  oncerned  to  state  that  Martinique  has  been  r  e  -  licyed,  and  that  under  very  singular  and  mortif3ine  cit-  e,  Three  French  frigates,  viz.  the  Juno.  the  Venus,  and  the  .  tu-  hitrioe,  sailed  in  company  from  Cherbour  , STYLE=superscript  on  the  13th  of  Xi,-  Gazette  yember,  with  troop;  and  provisions  on  board.  On  the  31  or  Drceimber,  her  .lat.  4  .  2  .  .  the  Amphitrite,  having  previously  .  sepa-  rti  f  rom  het  ((instals,  fi  ll  in  with  the  Lord  ('  ran-town  amid  i  11..  .  !•  must  have  produced  a  considerable  change  in  the  measures  Lydia,,  of  and  from  Liverpool,  hound  to  St.  K  itt's  and  St.  and  policy  of  the  Porte,  we  have  reason  to  be  surprised  that  Croix.  The  Lydia  vas  immediately  ca  potted,  as  was  the  the  German  Papers,  under  the  controul  of  France,  are  not  Crans.oun,  after  making  a  spirited  resistance.  The  former  more  explicit  on  this  subject.  was  burn  t STYLE=superscript  ;  and  her STYLE=superscript  crew,'  with  some  other  prisoner-  , STYLE=superscript  ,  were  The  intelligence  cif  the  continuance  of  the  American  put  on  hoard  an  American  brig,  and'  sent  to  Lnetand  Embargo  had  caused  a  very  strong  sensation  iu  the  North  The  Nmpititrite  mounts  44  guns,  and  tsad  on  boart  (200  troops  •  ,  of  Germany,  where  beef,.  for  the  succour  and  reinforcement  of  the  garrison  of  Mar-  i  ,  scarcity  of  Colonial  produce.  Sonic  military  movements,  ,  $  .  on  the  part  of  the  French.  are  likewise  mentioned  ;  and  the  1  til' STYLE=superscript  A  ur STYLE=superscript  i  e  . STYLE=superscript  i  . STYLE=superscript  ter  from  Barbnioec,  dated  the  2.lth  of  December,  after  l'  carps  of  General  De  pistol.,  stationed  in  Ilanan,  is  to  be  statirg  the  above  affair  in  a  similar  ntaituer,  proceeds:  ''  Two  i  attglitelltCd  to  30,000.  men.  Some  troops  which  had  passed  brigs  an  d  two  i  ,clonniers.  which  also  arrived  from  France  bound  $  the  Rhine  were  counter-ordered,  and  resumed  their  former  to  Rtatinique,  have  escaped  eur  cruizers,  though  there  are  41_  ,  ..  station  near  Frankfurt.  What  gives  some  weight  to  these  wards  of  a  dozen  roun  d STYLE=superscript  that STYLE=superscript  i STYLE=superscript  s  land STYLE=superscript  since STYLE=superscript  it STYLE=superscript  was STYLE=superscript  p  ut STYLE=superscript  in STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  state  (or  ,  .  movements,  is  the  mysterious  manner  in  which  a  journey  of  blockade.  As  General  V  illaryt  is  so  much  reniforced,  I  fear  it  '  the  Archduke  CILARLFS  to  Berlin  is  alluded  to.  '  t  he  .  will  cost  us  many  a  weary  day'  s  work,  ::mid  many  valuable  lives,  '  certain  circumstances,  alluded  to  in  the  Hanikureh  Papers,  to  get  possession  of  Fort  •  6  In  consequence  of  the  above  supplies  of  troops  and  provi-  , STYLE=superscript  which  will  decide  the  Archduke's  journey,  arc  pro-  ;ions,  it  is  repotted  that  the  L  xpedition  against  .tiartinique  is,  bably  the  return  of  the.  King  and  Queen  of  PaessrA  for  the  present,  relinquished.  from  Petersburg,  accompanied  by  the  Emperor  Aerx.i.e-  A  Short  Diaidgme  on  a  Long  Subject  between  a  Gentleman  , STYLE=superscript  DER..  There  is  no  man  now  existing  more  capable  of  .  an  d  hi  s  F  r  i  s  eur.—Friseur.  lam  sorry,  Sir,  to  tell  You,  that  vomit  conciliating  the  different  States,  and  collecting  their  afferent  hair  has  now  so  much  decayed,  that  it  is  nut  of  my  payer  r  a  i  energieein  one  common  point,  than  CHAIR  vs  of  Austria.—  i  dress  you  full  in  front.--Grnt.  You  are  right,  Thomas;  1  have  llis  popularity,  his  public  and  private  virtues,  his  military  l  tried  innume  , STYLE=superscript  able  specifics  for  the  grow  th  of  I  air  ;  hut  I  find  ms  j  exploits,  reniler  him  peculiarly  qualified  to  play  the  part  l  alteration  for  the  better.  Can  ynu  tell  me  of  a  remedy  really  .!  of  mediator  and  deliverer  in  the  present  distracted  state  of  '1  etli`'&#34;c&#34;  '''  - STYLE=superscript  '•  r STYLE=superscript  l  i STYLE=superscript  '''''•  I  c  a STYLE=superscript  , STYLE=superscript  si STYLE=superscript  r  , STYLE=superscript  and STYLE=superscript  (4&#34;' STYLE=superscript  that STYLE=superscript  &#34;e'en  f&#34;ile'd  o  f  surres  :  i  t  ,  i  s  hi  g  hly  popular,  and  hay  a  Ito  .  lial  Sourtion;  t  ..  •  1  1  the  Cantivent.  His  organizatieu  of  the  Austrian  armies  on  i  tl  mean  the  Macaisar  Ni!---so  natneil  hecan4e  it  i.,  extracted  from.  x  more  effecti.ve  and  formidable  footinn•  than  they  ever  had  T  a  ii  „  in  the  island  or  maea  ,,,  nr,  in  the  E  ,,,  t  itlilie:  ,.  it  I,  a  n  been,  since  the  establi.;:iment  of  the  monarchy,  will  give  11 STYLE=superscript  tit:lie!  and  uniivancit  preparation,  anti  it  iS  in  tile  tiloiits.t  rt'  s  o  me  weight,  to  his  negotiations  . STYLE=superscript  and  patriotic  eKertions.  :  le  a  te  —G.er.  I  cordially  thank  V  ou.  Who  are  th  e  pr  . STYLE=superscript  to  pri.  , STYLE=superscript  Our  present  olp;erY  ations  will,  perhaps,  explain  an  article  .  ie  ors  ?  t'reeer.  IIoN%  land  and  Son,  corner  of  Kirbv-  , STYLE=superscript  tieet,  i;i  one  or  Ow  last  Freuch  Bull:Lite:.  It  is  therein  dal  ea,  that  1.  Hatton-Gard  n  :  tee  it  is  :lige  , STYLE=superscript  :elfl  by  titer  a  ppeieleioei  a  .  ;  mov  e.  .  .  lie:  - STYLE=superscript  imperial  lica..i-qua.rters  e  era  to  le;  reitteNed,  ;eat.  that  ti  minfet  Lee  fa  al,e-  e,;:7  t,  5%  as,  ~:i.  ,ou  urey•  i  '  ,  ."
