text
"sent  separate  article,  and  have  sealed,  it  with  the  seals  of  our  arms.  Donent  London  this  14th  day  of  January,  1809.  (L.S.)  GEORGE  CANNING.:  Art.  11.  Separate.  A  treaty  shall  forthwith  be  negociatNl,  stipulating  the  amount  and  deseriptioir  of  succours  to  be  afforded  by  his  Britannic  Majesty,  agreeably  to  the  third  article  of  the  present  treaty.  In  witness  w  hereof,  we,  the  under  - STYLE=superscript  signed  Plenipotentiaries,  have  signed,  in  virtue  of  our  respectite  full  powers,  the  present  teparatearticle,  mid  have  sealed  it  with  the  seals  of  our  arms.  Done  at  London  this  11th  day  of  January,  1809.  (t..  S.)  GEORGI;  CANNING.  Additional  Art.--I  . STYLE=superscript  llc  present  circumstances  not  admitting  of  the  regular  negotiation  ef  a  treaty  of  commerce  between  the  two  countries,  with  all  the  care  and  consideration  tine  to  so  im important  portant important  a  subjt-et,  the.  high  contracting  parties  mutually  engage  to  proceed  to  such  negotiation  as  soon  as  it  shall  be  practicable  so  to  do,  affording,  in  t  he  mean  time,  mutual  fat  ilitics  to  the  commerce  of  the  subjects  of  each  other,  by  temporary  regula regulations  tions regulations  founded  on  principles  of  reciprocal  utility.  In  witne.  , STYLE=superscript  s  whereof,  we,  the  undersigned  Plenipotentiaries,.  having  sig  ned,  in  virtue,  of  our  respective  full  powers,  the.  present  ad  ditional  article,  and  have  sealed  it  with  the  seals  of  our  arms.  Dune  at  London  this  21st  day  of  March,  ISM.  (L.  S.)  GEORGE  CANNING.  TUESDAY'S  LOXDOY  GAZETTE.,  Downing-street,  .March  '27,  1809.  Dispatches,  of  which  the  following  are  copies,  have  this  day  Invo  received  from  Lieut  -Gen-  Beckwith,  Commander  of  his  Majestyerforces  in  the  Leeward  Islands,  addressed  to  Viscount  Castlereagh,  one  of  his  Majesty's  Principal  Secretaries  of  State.  LThe  first  dispatch,  dated  Feb.  1,  announces  the  landing  of  the  , STYLE=superscript  t,ops  tho.ithh  of  January,  in  two  divisions.  The  second  coot:  s  nr  , STYLE=superscript  :lecount  of  the  taking  of  t  he  heights  of  Surirey,  014  eon  island,  and  other  operations,  which  we  have  already  minutely  detailed  from  the  Barbadoes  Papers.]  Camp,  lhights  of  Surirey,  Martinique,  Feb.  10,  1809.  llv  Lo  kb—Having,  in  my  communications  of  the  lst  and  sth  submitted  to  your  Lordship's  consideration  general  reports  orate  operations  of  the  army  I  have  the  !loliour  to  command,  I  now  beg  leave  to  inclose  the  special  reports  of  the  General  Offi Officers  cers Officers  commanding  divisions,  and  of  Brigwiier-General  Iloghton,  y:hose  brigade  wac  in  action  upon  the  Ist.  with  separate  returns  t4f  our  loss  upon  the  Ist  and  2d,  which,  I  am  inclined  to  believe.  terminate  our  operations  in  th  e  field.  The  lower  fort,  formerly  Fort  Edward,  was  taken  pOSSCSSiOn  of  before  day-break  in  the  morning  of  the  bill,  by  Major  Ilen Ileniler*on,  iler*on, Ileniler*on,  commanding  the  Royal  York  Rangers,  with  that  regi regiownt,  ownt, regiownt,  tvit  hoot  istance,  and  we  now  occupy  that  work.  St.  Pierre  surrendered  to  Lieutenant-Colonel  Barne  , STYLE=superscript  ,,  of  the  -I;ith  regiment,  the  day  before  yesterday,  and  I  have  not  yet  re reved  ved reved  the  details.  Jut  he  course  of  all  these  services,  where  the  co-operation  ►►t'  Cie  navy  wa  practicable,  the  greatest  exertions  have  been  rts;v!e  11%  the  Rear-Admiral  ;  and  the  iinportant  advantages  ret,ot.i  . STYLE=superscript  til  e'u  shore  by  that  excellent  (dicer  Cotan►odore  Cm:idiom,  in  the  rAttet  ion  of  Pigeon  Island,  and  tht.  landing  eantoot,  mortars,  and  .cmuunition,  at  Point  Negroe,  aid  conveying  titttn  to  the  sever;  bit  teries  on  that  side,  hare  been  of  the  highest  importance  to  t:►c  King's  service.  _  I  have,  &amp;c.  (co.  BECKWITH  )  COM.  Forces.  To  Lord  Viscount  Castlereagh,  .i'r.  [The  special  reports  which  fol:ow,  by  Generals  Prevost,  lloghtott,  and  Maitland,  give  an  account  of  the  operations  in  V.:licit  they  were  respectively  engage;:,  but  which  have  all  been  already  fully  described  in  our  Paper.]  R  !tarn  of  killed,  wounded,  and  rni:;.7;ns  , STYLE=superscript  of  the  DirLionnndcr  the  Command  of  Lieut.-Geprot  Sir  George  Peccost,  Lail.  in  the  miters  of  thelst  cf  Feb.  I  809.  Zth  or  Ito:.111  Fusileers,  Int  battalion,  1  captain,  9  rank  and  i  killed;  2  seijoants,  1  drummer,  56  rank  and  tile,  wounded;  r.ink  and  tile,  mi..ising.-23:1  or  It  oyal  leers,  I  st  Laalion  )  1  serjeant  )  I-1  rank  and  We,  kizlcd  ;  zedeantt,  'Z9  rank  and  file,  wounded;  h  serjeant,  5  rank  and  tile,  missing,—  Detachment  of  the  Ist  West  India  Regiment,  1  rank  and  file  t  killed;  1  drummer,  18  rank  and  file,  wounded;  . STYLE=superscript  1  subaltern,  ta:•sing.—Light  battalion,  11  rank  and  file,  killed  ;  1  captain,  2  Subalterns,  1-  serjeant,  2  buglei,  SO  rank  and  file,  wounded;  3  rank  and  file,  missing.-  7  -Total  :  1  captain,  1  serjeant,  35  rank  and  file,  killed  ;  1  captain,.2  subalterns,  5  serjeants,  4  drummers,  2  bugles,  183  rank  and  tile,  Wounded  ;  1  subaltern,  1  serjeant,  12  rank.  and  file,  missing.  Officer  killed.—Capt.  Taylor,  of  the  Royal  Tusileers,  Acting  Deputy  Quarter-Master-General.  Officers  Wounded.—Captain  Gledstanes,  of  the  3d  West  India  light  infantry;  Lieut.  Johnson  of  the  4th  ditto;  Lieut.  Jackson,  of  the  rifle  company  Royal  West  India  Rangers.  Officer  Missing.—Lieut.  Gilmour,  of  the  Ist  West  India  Regi Regi,  , Regi,  went,  taken  prisoner.•  (Signed)  A.  LIGERTw  00D.  Acting  Deputy  Adjutant-General  to  the  Forces  under  the  Command  of  Lieut..-Gen.  Sir  G.  Prevost.  Return  of  killed.  wounded,  and  missing,  of  the  First  Division  of  the  it  ring  upon  the  ileight  of  Surirey,-Peb.  2,181.9.  7th  Royal  Fusileers,  Ist  battalion,  1  serjeant,  20  rank  and  tile,  killed  ;  1  field-officer,  2  eaptaita;,  1  serjeant,  1  drummer,  58  rank  and  file,  w  ounded  ;•  3  rank  and  tile,  missing.  -Bth  King's  Regi Regiment,  ment, Regiment,  Ist  battalion.  1  field-otficer,  4  rank  and  file,  killed;  13  rank  and  file,  wounded.  —23  cl  Royal  Welch  Fusileers,.  Ist  bat battalion,  talion, battalion,  1  serjeant,  3  rank  and  file,  killed  ;  1  subaltern,  1  staff,  Ifa  rank  and  file,  wounded  . STYLE=superscript  ;  1  serjeant,  inissing.—Dtstachmein,  13t  West  India  Regintzat,  1.  rank  and  tile,  killed.—Light  battalion,  1  captain,  1  serjeant,  14  rank  and  file,  killed;  .1  field-officer,  1  subaltetn,2  serjeants,36  rank  aed  file,  wounded.—Total  ;  I  field fieldofficer,  officer, fieldofficer,  1  captain,  3  serji!ant!z,  42  rank  and  file,  killed;  2  field•  officers,  2  captains,  23ubalterns,  I  staff,  3  serjeants,  1  drummer,  126  rank  and  file,  w  minded;  1  serjeant,  3  rank  and  file,  missing.  Officers  Killed.—  kith  Regiment,  Major  Maxwell,  light  bat battalion;  talion; battalion;  Capt.  Sinclair,  23th  regiment.  Officers  .  Wounded.-7th  Regiment,  Hon.  Lieut.-Colonel  Pakenhant;  Captains  Rowe  and  Cholwick.-23d  Regiment,  Lieut.  Roskelly;  Surgeon  Power.—Light  battalion,  Major  Campbell  of  the  Royal  West  India  Rangers;  Lieut.  Hopwood  of  ditto.—Staff,  Captain  Coore,  Aide-de-Camp  to  Lieut.-Gen.  Sir  G.  Prevost,  slightly.  G.  W.  R  a  Stsi  Y.,  Brig.  and  Adj.-Gen.  A  Letter  from  Rear-Ad►niral  Sir  Alexander  Cochrane  gives  an  account  of  the  lauding  of  the  troops  under  Lieut.-General  Beckwith,  at  Martinique,  and  incloses  a  letter  from  Capt.  Beaver,  of  the  Acasta,  respecting  the  dbembarkatiou  of  the  troops  under  his  charge  at  Bay  Robert.  Copy  of  a  Letter  to  Rear-Admiral  Sir  Alex.  Cochrane.  Cleopatra,  oft'  Basseterre,  Guadaloupc,  Jan  23,  1801.  Slit,  In  consequence  ofseparatiag  from  hi=  Majesty's  ship  J  ason,  and  there  being  no  probability  of  communication  either  with  Capt.  Mande,  or  Capt.  Pigot  of  the  ',atona  l  and  senior  officer  of  the  blockading  squadron,  I  beg  to  inform  you,  that  yester yesterday,  day, yesterday,  in  obedience  to  the  signals  made  to  me  by  Capt.  Maude,  I  chaced  a  ship  in  the  N.  N.  W.  which  I  shortly  afterwards  made  out  to  be  a  French  frigate,  who,  on  seeing  us,  hauled  close  in  shore,  and  anchored  under  a  small  battery  a  little  to  the  S.  of  Point  Noir.  Having  ascertained  that  they  were  securing  her  (by  springs  on  her  cables,  and  others  fast  to  the  trees  on  shore)  as  well  as  her  situation  would  permit,  I  made  every  preparation  for  attacking  her,  the  witid  being  at  this  time  from  the  s.  but  very  light  aid  variable.  At  half  past  2P.M.  we  got  the  true  breeze,  and  turned  up  to  windward  till  within  a  ca cable's  ble's cable's  lenOt  oi  . STYLE=superscript  the  shore,  and  half  musquet  shot  from  the  ene ene,  , ene,  «  h  ich  was  eiThrted  at  :t  o'clock,  when  his  firing  commenced.  taw  from  the  shape  of  the  land  aml  the  shoal  of  water  between  us,  that  I  could  not  close  without  danger  of  being  raked,  I  was  therefore  obliged  to  anchor  in  six  fathoms  and  a  half,  and  re returned  turned returned  his  tile,  which  fortunately  cut  away  his  outside  spring,  when  he  swtmg  in  shore  with  his  head  towards  us,  giving  us  the  advantage  I  refosed  hint  before  ;  this  1  so  effectually  preserved,  that  he  never  afterwards  got  more  than.  half  his  broadside  to  hear;  we  thus  engaged  for  40  minutes,  when  the  Jason  and  Ha Hazard  zard Hazard  came  up,  the  former  having  taken  a  position  on  her  star starboard  board starboard  quarter,  and  firing  her  bow  guns,  the  Hazard  at  the  same  time  directing  hers  to  the  fort,  the  enemy  hauled  down  his  colours,  finding  he  was  not  able  to  sustain  so  unequal  a  combat.  She  proves  to  be  the  French  national  frigate  Topaze,  carrying  48  guns,  eighteen  24  and  56-pounders,  commanded  by  MOM,  La Lahall  hall Lahall  e,  Capitnine  dc  frigate,  «ith  a  complement  of  330  men;  she  P6_TB00016 .  Zl4  P6_TB00017 TrrliE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  APRIL  2."
