text
"rr.B.  5.  put  on  the  half-pad  16t,  'on  which  ht  will  be  placed  so  soon  a athe  the athe  Duke  of  York  has  it  in  his  power,  there  being  at  preset)  . STYLE=superscript  no  opportunity  crf  doing  so.  Q.  Did  that  Captain  Malin  ever  serve  in  any  corps  ?  A.  1  never  heard  hedid,  and  I  do  not  believe  he  ever  did.  The  other  witnesses  not  being  present,  Mr.  Perceval  pCoposed  that  ih'e  Chairman  should  report  pro progress,  gress, progress,  and  inquired  of  the  Honourable  Gentleman  (Mr.  Wardle)  when  he  would  be  ready  to  go  on  with  any  of  the  other  charges.  Mr.  Wardle  said,  this  must  depend  on  the  arrival  of  Captain  Huxley  Sandon.  I.ordCAsTLEnt.scat  said,  he  understood  the  waggon  train  was  arrived  ;  the  ord'r  sent  down  ;  and  that  Captain  Huxle,  Sanden  might  he  in  town  by  the  time  the  Committee  should  be  ready  to  proceed  on  Monday.  Mr.  CANNING  asked  which  charge  the  Honourable  Gentle Gentleman  man Gentleman  meant  to  bring;  forward  first  ?  Mr.  WARDLE  said,  he  could  not  discover  where  Mrs.  Shaw  was:  could  he'have  found  her,  he  should  have  brought  on  that  charge  first.  He  should,  if  agreeable,  make  a  communication  to-morrow  to  any  of  the  Right  Honourable  Gentlemen  opposite,  of  the  charge  he  should  next  proceed  in,  and  of  the  day  on  w  hich  •he  should  bring  it  forward.  Mr.  SHERIDAN  stated,  that  he  had  used  the  freedom  some  days  ago,  understanding  that  his  Honourable  Friend  (Mr.  Wardle)  was  about  to  bring  forward  charges  of  the  kind  to  send  to  him,  requesting  that  he  would  he  cautious  how  he  inter interfered  fered interfered  in  the  business,  he  (Mr.  Sheridan)  having  reason  to  be believe,  lieve, believe,  that,  with  the  very  best  intentions,  his  •  Honourable  Friend  had  lent  himself  to  an  association  of  an  unprincipled  kind.  He  was  sorry  to  understand  that  his  Hon.  Friend  had  not  received  that  message,  for,  in  the  end,  he  was  assured  he  •  should  find  he  had  been  decoyed  into  a  foul  and  unprincipled  as association.  sociation. association.  Were  we,  however,  to  be  told,  that  so  grave  and  important  charges—charges  by  which  the  vital  interests  of  the  country  at  this  critical  moment  were  affected,  in  which  it  was  a  question  whether  any  officer,  or  soldier  in  the  British  army  •  ought  or  ought  not  to  look  up  with  reverence  and  respect  to  their  head;  whether,  indeed,  he  was  worthy  of  continuing  a  moment  longer  in  the  command  of  the  army.  Were  we  to  be  told  that  in  such  a  case  as  this  any  delay  ought  to  be  admitted  ?  The  Hon.  Gentleman,  forsooth,  was  not  ready  to  prove  his  charges.—Yes,  but  he  was  ready  to  make  them  !  Of  delay,  is  such  a  case,  the  honour,  the  best  interests  of  the  country,  would  not  admit.  If  the  Gentleman  chose  to  make  his  charges  he  must  be  ready  to  prove  them.  It  was  at  length  settled,  that  the  Committee  should  sit  again  on  Tuesday,  and  that  Capt.  Huxley  Sanden,  Mr.  Donnovan,  Mrs.  Clarke,  Mrs.  Shaw,  &amp;c.  be  summoned  to  attand.—Ad  journed.  Note.—Something  like  serious  altercation  took  place  between  Mr.  Canning  Rad  Mr.  Whitbread  ;  when,  aptly  enough,  Mr.  Fuller  admonished  the  House  that  they  had  better  go  home  and  go  to  bed"
