text
":~  ;  •  'TOO  p  , STYLE=superscript  •  oner  , STYLE=superscript  .  11, STYLE=superscript  The  trmn  and  environs  of  Logo  are  'cloaked  'With  the  bodies  of  English  horses.  Hence,  2300  horse  have  been  - STYLE=superscript  killed  in  the  retreat.  .  the  English  are  marching  to  Corunna  in  great  haste  where  th  ( STYLE=superscript  ry  have  400  transports.  They  have  already  lost  baggage.  ititmunition,  a  part  even  of  their  most  material  artillery,  and  Upwards  (  - STYLE=superscript  03000  prisoners.  On  the  10th  our  advanced  guard  'was  at  Betanzos,  a  short  distance  from  Corunna.  The  Duke  of  . STYLE=superscript  ElCkogen  is  with  his  corps  near  Lugo.  In  reckoning  the  sick,  stragglers,  those  who  have  been  killed  by  the  :  peasants,  and  made  prisoners  by  our  troops,  we  may  calculate  the  loss  of  the  English  at  one  third  of  their  army  They  are  •  reduCed  to  18,000  men,  and  are  not  yet  embarked.  From  .Sa:tagatt  they  retreated  150  leagues  in  bad  weather,  triar.Pirottals,  through  mountains,  and  always  closely  pursued  at  tie  point  Of  the  sword.  It  is  aidicult  to  conceive  the  folly  of  their  mode  of  campaign.  It  must,  be.  attributed  not  to  the  General  who  commands,  and  hois  a  Clever  and  skilful  man,  but  to  that  spirit  of  hatred  and  rage.  Which  annimates  the  English  Ministry.  To  push  forward  in  thiiinaoner  30  030  men,  opposing  them  to  destruction,  or  to  flight'  as  their  only  resource.  It  is  a  conception  which  can  only  be  inspirod  by  the  spirit  of  passion,  or  the  most  extra extra-4sigant  4sigant extra-4sigant  presumption.  Lego  was  pillaged  and  sacked  by  the  enemy.—We  cannot  im impute  pute impute  these  disasters  to  the'English  General  :  it  is  the  usual  and  ihevitable  erect  of  forced  marches  and  precipitate.  retreat.  Zamora,  whose  inhabitants  had  been  animated  by  the  presence  of  the  English,  shut  their  gates  against  General  Mattpetet  :  General  Dorneau-  proceeded  against  it  with  four  battalitas,—he  scaled  the  city,  took  it,  and  put  the  most  guilty  to  the  sword:—  .Gralic4a  is  the  province  of  Spain  which  manifests  the  best  dispo disposition,  sition, disposition,  it  receives  the.  French  as  deliverers.  the  29th  'Bulletin,  dated  Valladolid,  ltith  Jan.  relates  to  transactions  in  the  centre  of  Spain,  and  states  that  the  Duke  de  •  dune  had  compelled  300  Officers,  two  Generals,  seven  Colonels,  'tPO  Lieutenant-Colonels,  and  12,000  men  to  lay  down  their  arm'  labile  retreating  to  Alcaza,r.  The  Commander.  le  was  killed.  The  Bulletin  afterwards  recites  the  Addresses  of  the.  Council  .of  State  and  other  public  bodies  at  Nadrid,  to  the  Conqueror.  '  'THIRTIETH  BULLETIN  OF  THE  ARMY  OF  SPAIN.  .  .  •-.  .  VALLAnOiID„.  21.—The  Duke  of  Dalmatia  left  Be  tanzos  on  the  12th  inst.  Having  reached'  Mere,  he  found  the  bridge  of  Iturgo  cut..  The-enemy  was  dislodged  from  the  vil village  lage village  of.Borgo.  In  - STYLE=superscript  the  meanwhile  Gen;  Franeschi  ascended  the  'liver,  which  he  crossed  at  the  bridge  of  Sela.  He  made  him him'  ' him'  Self  master  of  the  high  road  from  Corunna  to  Sahtiago,  and  fix.officers  and  sixty  soldiers  prisoners.  On  the  same  day  a  bodx  of  thirty  inarines  who  were-fetching  water  from  the  '  bay  near  Mero,  were  taken.  From  the  'village  of  Perillo,  the  English  fleet  could  be  obselved  in  the  harbour  of  Comma.  On  the  13th,  the  enemy  caused  two  powder  Fia  sines,  situ situ,  , situ,  W  4  uear  the  heights  of  St.  Margaret,.  at  half  a  league  from  Co-  Arntirm,  to  be  blown  up:  The-explosion  was  terrible,  and  was.  felt  at  the  distance  of  three  leagues.  PM  - STYLE=superscript  the  14th,  the.  briagebat  Ilurgn  *was'  -.repaired,  and  the  '  . STYLE=superscript  French'  at.ol4rio  '.tvas  '  M  1e  to  pass.  then!),  - STYLE=superscript  hal  itiikYn  a  Viition  at  i‘to  leagues  distanCe,  :Mita  - STYLE=superscript  league  fr  om  . STYLE=superscript  Cintirna.  e  wnsseen  employed  in  hastily  embarking  hietick  and  wound wound.,Ad,  .,Ad, wound.,Ad,  the,ounsbeil  of  which,  according  to  /spies  and  'deserters,  amounts  to  8060-0r.4000  men.  »  •  '  •  r  '  '  The•  English•  were  in-the  meanwhile  occupied  id  . STYLE=superscript  •destroying  '  the  batteries  on  the•  coast,  and  •  la`yino•  waste  tlw  ebwritly-  ma  the  sea  shore.  The  Continandant  of  the•fort  of  St:  inktitio,  sesiTect sesiTectina  ina sesiTectina  the  fate  intended  for  his  fortification*,  refused•to  adutit  them  •in  it.  .  •  •  on  the  evening  of  the  14th-wesaw  afresh  conspylo6l6o  sail  arrive,  among  which  *ere  four  ships  of  theline;  •,;44.  thef  morning  of  the  15th.,  the  divisions  of  Merle  and-Mer and-Merrna  rna and-Merrna  occupied  the  heights  of  Villahoa,  where  the  enemy's  •  ad ad_  _ ad_  lanced  guard  was  stationed,-  which  -was  attacked  and  destroyed.  Our  right  wing  was  stationed  on  the  point  , STYLE=superscript  where-thecoad  from  Corunna  to  lingo,  and  that  froth  Cataluna  to  meet.  The  left  was  placed  behind  the  village  of  Elvina.  The  enemy  stationed  behind  some  beautiful  heights.  The  rest  of  the  15th  was  spent  in  fixinga  battery  of  12  pieces  of  cannon  ;  and  it  was  not  till  the  16th,  at  three  o'clock  in  the  aftr-ruuou,  that  the  Duke  of  Dalmatia  gave  orders  to  attack.  .  „  ,  f  •  11  , STYLE=superscript  71  170:  rrit  ,  .t.,N,  VION  trr.tlStElt.  .  .  FEB.  The  assault  was  made  upon  the  English  by  the  first  ')rigaie  of  the  division  of  Mermet,  Which  overthreW  them,  and  dr:ive  them  from  . STYLE=superscript  the  village  of  Elvina.  The  second  regiment  or  light  infantry  covered  itself  with  glory.  General  Jordon,.  at  Cie  head  of  the  Voltiguers,  wrought  a  terrible  carnage.  The  enemy,  driven  from  his  positions,  retreated  to  the  gardens  which  sur surround  round surround  Common.  The  night  growing  very  dark,  it  WRS  necessary  to  suspend  the  attack.  The  enemy  availed  himself  of  this  to  embark  w  fi  p  re repitation.  pitation. repitation.  Only  6000  of  our  men  were  engaged,  zinc'  every  ar arrangement  rangement arrangement  was  made  for  abandoning  the  positions  of  the  night,  and  advancing  next  day  to  a  general  attack.  The  to-•s  of  the  enemy  has  been  immense.  Two  of  our  batteries  played  upon  then►  during  the  whole  of  the  engagement.  We  counted  on  the  field  of  battle  more  than  eight  hundred  of  their  dead  bodies,.  amt►ng  which  was.the  body  of  General  Hamilton,  and  those  of  two  other  General  Officers,  whose  names  we  are  unacquainted  with.  We  have  taken  20  Officers,  300  men,  and  4  pieces  of  cannon.  The  English  have  left  behind  them  more  than  1500  horses,  which  they  had  killed.  Our  loss  amounts  to  100•killcd  and  150  wounded.  The  Colonel  of  the  47th  regiment  distinguished  himself.  An  Ensign  of  the  31st  infantry  killed  with  his  own  hand  an  English  Officer,  who  had  endeavoured  to  wrest  from  him  his  eagle.  The  General  of  Artillery  Bomjeat  and  Colonel  Foutenay  have  sig signalized  nalized signalized  themselves.  At  day  break  on  the  17th,  we  saw  the  English  convoy  under  sail  On  the  18th,  the  t‘  hole  had  disappeared.  The  Duke  of  Dalmatia  had  caused  a  carronade  to  he  dis discharged  charged discharged  upon  the  vessels  from  the  fort  of  Santiago.  Several  transvorb  ran  aground,  and  all  the  men  who  were  onboard  were  taken.  Itie  found  in  the  e‘tahlishment  of  the  Palloza  (a  large  manu manufactory,  factory, manufactory,  &amp;c.  in  the  suburbs  of  Cortuma,  where  the  English  had  previously  been  encamped),  3000  English  muskets.  Magazines,  also  were  seized,  containing  a  great  quantity  of  ammunition  and  other  effects,  belonzing  to  the  hostile  army.  A  great  number  of  wounded  were  picked  up  in  the  suburbs.  The  opinion  of  the  inhabitants  on  the  spot,  and  deserters  is,  that  the  number  of  wounded  in  the  battle  exceeds  '2500  men.  Thus  has  terminated  the  English  Expedition  which  was  sent  into  Spain.  After  having  fomented  war  in  this  unhappy  country,  the  English  have  abandoned  it.  They  had  disembarked  38,060  men  and  6000  horses.  We  have  taken  from  them,  according  to  calculation,  6,500  men,  exclusive  of  the  six.  They  have  re reembarked  embarked reembarked  very  little  baggage,  very  little  ammunition,  and  very  few  horses.  We  have  counted  5000  killed  and  left  behind.  The  men  who  have  found  an  asylum  on  board  their  vessels  arc  harrassed  and  dejected.  In  ;mother  season  of  the  year  not  one  of  them  would  have  escaped.  The  facility  of  cutting  the  bridges,  the  rapidity  of  the  torrents,  which  in  winter  swell  to  deep  rivers,  the  shortness  of  the  days  and  the  length  of  the  nights,  arc  very  •  favourable  to  an  army  on  their  retreat.  Of  the  38,000  men  whom  the  English  had  disembarked,  we  may  be  assured  that  scarcely  24,000  will  return  to  England.  The  army  of  Romana,  which,  at  the  end  of  December  by  the  aid  of  reinforcements  which  it-had  received  from  - STYLE=superscript  Callicia,  con consisted  sisted consisted  of  16,000  men,  is  reduced  to  less  than  5000  men,  who  are  wandering  between  Vigo  and  Santiago,  and.are  closely  pursued,.  The  kingdom  of  Leon,  the  province  of  Zimora,  and  all  Galli Gallicia,  cia, Gallicia,  which  the  English  had  been  desirous  ~to  cover,  are  con conquered  quered conquered  and  subdued.  •  .  The  General  of.  Division  Lapisse  has  sent  patroles  into  Portugal,  whil  have.been  well  received  there.  General  \laupetit  has  entered  Salamanca;  he  met  there  with  some  sick  of  the  English  troops.  [At  the  end  of  the  Bulletin  is  inserted  an  intercepted  letter  s  dated  Santiago,  Jan.  IS0)  ,  and  signed  L.  E.  Tharn..3"
