text
"SUNDAY,  JANUARY  It  9,  1809.  POLITICAL  DISQUISITION.  NDMEER  Fl  FT  Y-SI  X!  --w•--  TO  WHAT  CAUSE  ARE  olnt  MILITARY  -FAILURES  TO  BE  ATTRIBUTED  ?  Every  engagement  with  the  enemy  afords  an  additional  testimony  of  the  superiority  of  our  troops.  Every  new  expedition  gives  an  alarming  proof  of  some  latent  defect  or  mismanagement,  which  frustrates  the  effects  of  this  su superiority.  periority. superiority.  Were  our  soldiers  less  disciplined,  less  nume  rons  and  intrepid,  and  our  disasters  originate  in  this  cause;  we  might,  console  ourselves  with  the  prospect:of  attaining  hereafter  the  advantages  we  do  not  possess  at  present.  But  as  our  military  are  unrivalled  in  every  quality  which  ren renders  ders renders  such  a  force  effective,  it  is  a  subject  of  equal  surprise  and  disappointment,  as  it  is  worthy  of  the  most  serious  in investigation,  vestigation, investigation,  that,  with  so  large  and  expensive  an  esta establishment,  blishment, establishment,  all  our  expeditions,  for  the  last  fifteen  years,  with  the  exception  of  that  to  Egypt,  have  not  been  pro productive  ductive productive  of  advantages,  equivalent  to  the  pay  of  our  army  for  a  single  day.  When  we  recal,  during  that  interval,  the  battles  of  Alexandria,  Maida,  Vimeira,  and  Corunna,  in  which  our  troops  have  performed  prodigies  of  valour;  and  read  over  the  history  of  the  same  period,  which  is  only  a  ,  are  almost  the  existence  elder,  Fer-  rol,  Buenos-Ayres,  and  in  Spain.  There  is  not  one  among  us,  who  has  not  frequently  at-  .  tempted  to  account  for  this  contradiction.  The  incapacity  of  the  Commanders,  the  weakness  of  the  Ministry,  the  de defects  fects defects  of  oar  military  system,  and  a  variety  of  other  causes  have  been  assigned  to  explain  this  political  phenomenon  ;  remedies  have  been  proposed,  anti  changes  introduced;  but  the  mortifying  inconsistency  continues,  and  every  new  en enterprise  terprise enterprise  renders  it  more  glaring  and  repugnant.  When  an  evil  appears  so  inveterate,  and  alarming  from  its  frequency  and  continuation,  it  may  appear  like  presump presumptiow,  tiow, presumptiow,  to  indulge  even  in  the  hope  of  its  eradication;  or  to  propose  measures  to  that  effect.  Selfishness  might  recom recommend  mend recommend  caution,  and  pusillanimity,  silence;  for  there  is  no  small  degree  of  danger  in  combating  abuses  and  errors  too  favourable  to  the  interests  as  well  as  passions  of  many.  The  fatal  influence,  which  is  capable  of  maintaining  them,  is  likewise  armed  with  the  power  of  molesting  the  reformer  ;  and  the  will  is  not  inferior  to  the  many;  of  ptinishing  him  for  his  interference.  The  whole  shoal  of  contractors,  job jobbers,  bers, jobbers,  commissaries,  and  minions,  who  fatten  in  the  pool  of  army-patronage,  will  join  in  criminating  his  intentions;  and,  sensible  of  their  present  advantages,  resist  every  pro proposal  posal proposal  for  purifying  the  noxious  sink.  As  long  as  they  en enjoy  joy enjoy  their  mistresses,  villas,  cooks,  and  equipages,  their  di digestion  gestion digestion  will  not  he  impeded,  nor  their  tVatifitations  re restrained,  strained, restrained,  in  consequence  of  the  disasters  of  the  country,  or  the  disgrace  of  our  arms.  But  such  of  the  public,  as  are  not  i_diviniihy  ititerest ititerested  ed ititerested  in  supporting  a  system  of  peculation,  begin  to  think  there  are  other  interests  to  be  conseited,  paramount  to  the  gratifications  of  a  minion,  or  the  pretensions  of  a  pr.-  tron.  The  mortification  of  our  former  failures,  joineti  to  the  senseless  profusion  of  blood  and  treasure  during  the  present  campaign,  have  already  caused  a  degree  of  irri'a irri'ation,  tion, irri'ation,  which,  we  trust,  will  not  subside!,  till  the  catae  be  rigidly  investigated  and  removed.  if  we  are  not  dead  to  the  honour  of  the  country,  and  the  increasing  peril  of  otie  situation,  if  experience  can  benefit  us,  or  'misfortune  in instruct,  struct, instruct,  we  will  speedily  and  efficaciously  set  about  the  work  of  reform.  Should  the  present  system  continue,  every  Tear  wil  be  marked  with  a  repetition  of  those  blunders  and  d  -  asters,  which  have  of  late  so  prominently  disti!lcA  ed  our  military  enterprises.  The  advantages  of  onr  tom!  situation,  the  vast  superiority  of  our  nay  v,  and  the  dis distracted  tracted distracted  attention  of  the  etiemy,  have  hitherto  preserved  us  from  their  effects.  But  the  .  fortune  which  has  favoured  us  till  now  may  change  ;  and  the  patriotic  spirit  of  the  country,  the  unrivalled  bravery  of  our  troops,  be  incapa-  We  of  resisting  the  pressure  of  the  unexpected  difficultiett.  If  we  Wish  to  have  our  destinies  placed  on  a  more  solid  basis  than  that  of  chance,  we  must  effect  a  chancre  and  a  radical  one  iu  our  military  department.  Past  disasters,  present  disappointments,  and  the  alarming  prospect  !before  us,  are  sufficient,to  rouse  egotism  and  iodotsatie-to  a  of  our  danger.  One  or  two  facts  convey  more  conviction  to  the  mind,  than  volumes  of  eloquent  declamation.  Was  there  eN  er  ail  army  more  compeleut  for  service,  or  animated  with  a  better  spirit,  than.  that  we  sent  to  Portugal  ?  The  Gene Generals  rals Generals  employed  ou  the  occasion  displayed  a  knowledge  of  their  profession,  combined  with  the  courage  of  a  sold;et,  that  the  only  anxiety  we  felt,  Was  dispelled  ;  and  the  pre pretended  tended pretended  superiority  of  the  enemy  over  us  in  this  u  ie  res respect,  pect, respect,  was  no  longer  admitted.  From  that  moment  we  could  look,  with  confidence,  to  the  most  brilliant  re:vat  from  the  operations  of  our  army.  Soldiers  and  Gene,rds  were  equally  good  ;  and  they  were  going  to  figia  under  the  must  auspicious  circumstances  which  fortune  coast  present,  or  the  man  of  honour  choose.  The  natives,  to  a  man,  were  ardent  in  our  favour.  They  had  labourol  for  some  time,  under  the  most  oppressive  and  gsW.eg  ser servitude,  vitude, servitude,  and,  with  our  assistance  alone  they  had  any  ra rational  tional rational  prospect  of  being  liberated  from  its  pressure.  We  will  not.  attempt  to  refute  au  opinion,  maintamei  by  mo modern  dern modern  declaimers,  which  only  an  absolute  ignorance  of  his his-1  -1 his-1  tory,  and  an  extrava6  - STYLE=superscript  ant  predilection  for  general  reason reasoning,  ing, reasoning,  unsubstantiated  by  fact,  could  have  brought  into  cir circulation.  culation. circulation.  The  people  of  every  country,  however  confined  their  intellectual  endowments,  or  degraded  tlieir  moo  - STYLE=superscript  i  sense,  prefer  their  own  government,  their  Cott  institn  -  Cams,  let  them  be  ever  so  defective,  to  the  most  beneficent  innovations.  If  they  are  associated  with  the  ideas  of  com compulsion  pulsion compulsion  and  conquest.  The  insolence,  the  rapncqy,  of  the  French  are  in  constant  collision  with  their  prefessions  ;  P1_TB00017 catitagup  and  disgraces,  we  inetineti  to  d'alrtiiptir  Senses,  and  to  doubt  th(  of  the  reverses  we  sustained  at  Dunkirk,  the  11  P1_TB00018 ~~;,  P1_TB00019 ._"
