text
".  .  i  o  ,  :  .  •••  SU.NDA\,  FEBRUARY  5,  1809.  POLITICAL  DEC  LA  IMItS.  w.  ~  No..  X.IXII.  •  TO  Mak  WHITBREAp,..QN  THE.-SPRJECT.  Of  ,  THE  OVERTURE'S  •FROM  ERFURTIL  Sin,  .or  •  •••  •  ••  .  As  an  advocate  for  freedom  of  dissuplop  t  you  wilt  per  mit  me  to  address  to  you  peciOnally  a  few  observations  on  ,  the  late  communications  froM  - STYLE=superscript  franceistid  Itessia.  A  will  .  not,  preface  them  by,  making  yoti  an  apology  for  Mani Manifesting,  festing, Manifesting,  in  the  course  of  this  letter,  priaciples,  and  •Senti-.1  .  meats  the  very  reverse  of  those  attributed  to  you  On  the  same-subject.  Entertaining,  however,  a  higher  opinion  of  .  your  political  integrity  and  talents,  thanyour  languid  dis disapprobation  approbation disapprobation  of  the  atrocities  committed  against  the  Spa Spa.  . Spa.  niards,  and  your  opinion  on  the  propriety  of  negociating  with  the  aggressor  would  appear  to  justify,.  I  will  care carefully  fully carefully  refrain  from  mingling  personalities  'with  the  sub subject  ject subject  of  our  correspondence.  Did  I  write  to  you  from  mo mo•  • mo•  tivcs  of  private  enmity,  or  to  gratify  the•passions  of  your  political  antagonists,  I  would  lay  a  particular  stress  on  the  .  extreme  inconsistency  of  your  professions  infavour  of  uni universal  versal universal  freedom,  with  your  indifference,  not  to  say  secret  repugnance  to  the  exertions-  and  sufferings  of  the  Spaniards  in  the  same  cuise.  Rat  ai  t.  have  no  animosity  .  to  gratify,  nor  any  views  of  a,  party  to  promote,  and  the  individual  totally  disappearing  in  the  magnitude  and  the  importance  •  .  of  the  subject,  %our  opinions  and  not  you;  will  be  the..ob the..ob.  . the..ob.  jectoltny  aniroadyersion.  •  After  indulging,  for  a  considerable  time,  in  a  strain  of  angry.  and  dispiriting  declamation,  in  which  you  attempt  to  •  •  exculpate  the  atrocities  of  BONAiART  . STYLE=superscript  E,  by  comparing  •  them  with  the  excesses  you  accuse  your  own  country  of  -  ; STYLE=superscript  '•ll‘aving  committed  otsdifferent  ,occasions,  you  cOhclude  this  vehement  philippic,  by  advising  the  necessityand  t►g  . STYLE=superscript  'the  propriety  of  negotititien  with  the  'enemy.  '  presitine;  'Sir,  when  you  adverted  to'  the  compa compa•  • compa•  raffve-  intilgitiftcaned  'of  England  alliOng  the'  nations;'  that  .1,0,460e/stk  . STYLE=superscript  '  ollditecbaractcrittic  * STYLE=superscript  gray  ty  •and  serionsness  , STYLE=superscript  bed  the  rhtfiltafed  idO  mortifying;  painful  an  opinion  '  ,of  his  tbuttig,  nAst'have  had  . STYLE=superscript  some  irrong  and  irrefragable  •pfoOfs  asSertiOn.  - STYLE=superscript  'As  you  forgot,  in  vio vio-1  -1 vio-1 STYLE=superscript  &#34;lentgandt.'iltliftthosity  -of  'yottetlisoitise,  .make  these  •  prieslehO  . STYLE=superscript  wn,  you  canna  - STYLE=superscript  condemn  •me  for  reluctantly  ti  sting  'to  the  truth'  of  so  grave  a  charge,  .siiiiported  by  tto  authority;  but  your  'b'are  The  - STYLE=superscript  Whole  tenor  of  -yout:di4eotirse  strongly  . STYLE=superscript  eVilacei  • STYLE=superscript  the  'irritation  of  mind  •  'you  labb4fed  'ilnder,  when  YOu  pronounced  it  and,  'I  am  misinformeB;  or  vOn  * STYLE=superscript  Ste  no  'stringer  to  - STYLE=superscript  the  effect  which  ••  too  violent  Un  'indulgence  of  passion  has  in  disfiguring  and  ,  •  exaggOritingTactii.  •  'As  I  do'  not  labour  habitually  myself  .•••  'tinder  inffuente  of  this  unruly  sensation,  and  have  assumed  a  more  than  ordinary  composure  in  addressing  myself  to  a  personage  of  your  rank  and  talents,  I  am,  ac ackno'wledging,  kno'wledging, ackno'wledging,  to  the  utmost  extent,  your  better  means  of  •  inforMatiou  and  ilitellettual  superiority,  consequently  less  liable  to  misrepresentation  and  error.  I  have  no  politi-  IT.--  Vo.  7.1111  Cat''arttapnist  to  'oyerthrOw,  and  have,  theectore,  less  kw  ducemeneto  pervert  . STYLE=superscript  truth,  in  order  to  render  his  integrity  suspicious  and  1114  capacity  doubtful.,  .  -  As  ti  have  omitted,  Sir,  I  will  hope  from  tlefica  o STYLE=superscript  y,  .  yo.  as  well  as  coininfsseration  fer  the  sunk  and  degraded  state  of  your  country,  to  publish  the  facts  on  which  you  fouud.ht  this  pitiful  opinion.  of  our  relittixe  importauce,.l  will  en endeavour  deavour endeavour  to  prpve  t  h  e  inaCcurail  ring  to  myself  the  ?esery  •  task  of  pointing:,  out  on  - STYLE=superscript  i.futtire  dangerous  and  criminal  •  tendency;  cif  these  itst,tement;:  It  is.pa  inful  to  be  reduced  to  the  .. STYLE=superscript  .ll6'oe'  isity.of.e4  f  , STYLE=superscript  tmlattin  opinions  of  •  this  .kind  the  - STYLE=superscript  confidence,  with  which  they  are  prw  •  Mulghted;  a  nd  tire  alarming  -appearance  (if  a  concerted  and  systeuiaftc  'project  of  attending  their.circulation,  (for  what  piirpcise'  time  may  detelope)  :  impress  the  necessity  of  exposing  and  _counteracting  th  .ir  ft  •eJustve  and  baneful  tendency.  There  is  not.  a  nevigei  t  iii.  political  rea reasoning,  soning, reasoning,  or  a  smatterer  in  th  e  first  principliwelphilosephy,  not  an  individual  who  has  received  his  ?otioosoftivil  go government  vernment government  from  'PAINE'.  and  Cosarr  t  vr.leai:nedlis,ethice  in  the  schools  of  modern  visionaries,  siho  does  ;not  spurn  at  the  contracted  notions  of  patriotism  ,411(1,1senevolente  which  our  forefathers  possessed.  The  lAtterit  :  ,..  ii-Arne,  loved  their  country,  notwithstanding  ,  all'  her  . STYLE=superscript  defect,„...with  passion  bordering  on  distraction  ;  and,.  an  ittevitAie  con consequence  sequence consequence  of  every  ardent  attnliment,  feaan  unatuquera unatuquerable  ble unatuquerable  abhorrence  for  her  enemies.  ',Ttkey  lovednankind  ;  but  their  friends,  their  nvig,libouri,:their  relatives  were  the  objects  of  their  immediate  and  ,active.  benevolence.  Now  the  case  is  completely  reversed  ;land  modern  patriot patriotism  ism patriotism  and  benevolence,  having-,taken  a  higher  stand,  dis disregard  regard disregard  the  spot  and  the  objects  itzmAliately.  near  them,  to  fix  their  eyes  on.  the  interminable  apace  before  them.  All  the  magic  of  optical  delusion,  from  this  conspicuous  eminence,  contributes  to  embellish  .  the.  remote  objects;  'w'hilst  the  unevenness  and  imperfections  of  the  station  they  are  placed  on,  enhance  the  beauty  and  advantages  of  the  distant  scenery.  Thus  the  patriots  of  our  day  overlook  their  country,  or  are  shocked  with  -its  imperfections  ;  and  the  delusive  •  influence  of  distance  gives  them  the  ntost  fascinating  idea  of  French  institutions.  They  forget  the  exercise  of  the  leisersocial  duties,  in  the  comprehen comprehensiveness  siveness comprehensiveness  of  their  views;  and  twit  in  'the  admiration  -of  BONAPARTE,  .his  armies;  his  statesmen,  his  literary  or  political,  establishments,  they  never  speak  of  their  own  country,'  her  military  and  GovernMeut,  hut  with  con contempt,  tempt, contempt,  and  reptign  at  the  idea  of  promoting  her  interests  and  glory  With  their  talents  and  influence.  ,  •  Such  Sir,  are  unfortunately  the  spirit  and  mania  of  our  new  stickful  for  reforin,—they  are  blind  to  all  the  advan advantages  tages advantages  of  their  own  nation,  or  even  glory  in  its  reverses  and  abasementi  because  it  happens  to  have  some  defects  inse inseperable  perable inseperable  from  human  institutions.  With  an  Infatuation,  (ninny  incomprehensible  and  odious,  they  raise  the  cha characier  racier characier  and  extol  the  resources  of  its  enemies  ;  and  forget forgetin;  in; forgetin;  the  baseness,  as  well  as  cowardice,  of  offering  up  in incense  cense incense  itt  the  shrine  of  an  insolent'on4l  , STYLE=superscript  inveterate  antago antagonist,  nist, antagonist,  they  denounce  it  as  an  act  of  madness  on  our  part,  to  P1_TB00025 I"
