text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  124  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  Lottbon,  SUNDAY,  FEBRUARY  19,  1809.  POLITICAL.  EVENTS  OF  THE  WEEK.  It  is  with  great  satisfaction  that  we  are  enabled  to  state,  0:1  the  1111116  s  /1011.1  NA  has  been  able  to  throw  himself  into  a  situation  from  whence  it  depends  only  upon  our  °sin  aci:vity  to  release  him  ;  should  our  Administration  not  deom  it  adviseable  to  send  hint  succours,  in  order  to  enable  him  to  act  offensively.  The  movement  of  the  Marquis,  after  the  discomfiture  of  his  army  in  Leon,  was,  as  generally  understood  at  Corun Corunna,  na, Corunna,  towards  Portugal.  Probably,  finding,  on  his  approach  to  Vigo,  that  that  harbour  had  been  abandoned  by  our  trooi.s,  he  took  possession  of  the  neighbouring  town  of  Bayona,  a  sea-port  near  the  mouth  of  the  Minho,  and  of  course  on  the  Gallician  and  Portuguese  frontier.  M.  CEVALLOS  has  arrived  in  town.  The  communications  be  has  made  to  Government  tend  to  confirm  the  hopes  we  still  so  fondly  indulge  in,  that  the  Spanish  Patriots  of  the  South  continue  to  manifest  the  strongest  determination  to  resist  the  progress►  of  the  Enemy.  Letters  fro►n  several  British  Officers,  the  statements  front  several  Gentlemen  lately  arrived  from  Seville  and  Cadiz,  corroborate  the  ac accounts  counts accounts  of  M.  CcvALLos.  Every  persom,  who  has  been  on  the  spot,  and  whose  observations  are  of  some  authority,  acknowledge  that  no  people  ever  breathed  a  more  ardent  love  of  their  country,  displayeti-more  fervour  in  the  cause,  Ulan  the  inhabitants  of  Andalusiet.  To  provide,  however,  against  the  possible  consequences  of  defeat,  measures  have  been  taken  to  secure  the  French  and  the  Spanish  fleets  at  Cadiz,  which  were  to  be  conveyed  to  the  outer  port.  We  are  happy  to  state,  upon  undeniable  authority,  that  the  inhabitants  of  that  city  display  the  greatest  activity  in  augmenting  their  measures  of  defence.  The  spirit  which  pervades  the  great  body  of  the  people  is  excellent  ;  and  the  intrigues  of  Mont,.;  produced  no  other  effect  than  to  strengthen  their  resolution  of  defending  their  city  to  the  last  extremity.  The  late  supply  from  Vera-Cr►►z,  of  9,200,003  dollars,  cannot  fail  to  increase  the  confidence  pf  the  Patriots.  It  is  one  of  those  unexpected  propi-  Onus  circumstances,  which,  in  a  mo►nent  of  gloom  and  trouble,  raises  the  spirits  of  men,  from  extreme  depression  to  above  the  ordinary  level.  Those  who  have  suffered  are  able  to  estimate  the  heart-cheer heart-cheering  ing heart-cheering  effects  of  sudden  assistance  of  any  discription.  The  mind,  relaxed  by  a  continuation  of  disappointments,  instantly  collects  itself,  and,  as  if  ashamed  of  its  former  despondency,  displays,  and  feels  a  more  than  usual  energy.  Previous,  however,  to  the  arrival  of  this  pecuniary  supply,  measures  of  caution,  as  well  as  vigour,  were  unceasingly  resorted  to.  A  number  of  persons,  suspected  of  favouring  the  designs  of  the  enemy,  and  of  maintaining  a  secret  cor correspondence  respondence correspondence  with  MoaLs,  were  arrested  ;  and  the  French  prisoners  were  to  be  transported  to  the  Balearic  Islands.  Under  tliehe  favouruble  appearances,  it  will  be  a  plea-  FEB.  lg.  sure  to  know,  that  two  Expeditions,  consisting  of  12  regi regiments,  ments, regiments,  are  in  a  great  state  of  forwardness,  generally  sup supposed  posed supposed  for  that  destination.  Tbe  . STYLE=superscript  British  force  in  Portugal,  under  Sir  JOHN  CKADDOCK,  if  incapable  of  maintaining  a  footing  in  that  country,  has  received  orders,  it  is  said,  to  proceed  directly  to  Cadiz.  General  SHERBROOKE'S  expe expedition  dition expedition  was  destined,  we  believe,  for  the  same  place.  The  fleet  of  transports  which  had  been  dispersed,  during  the  late  violent  gales,  have  all  safely  arrived  at  Cork,  and  other  ports  in  the  South  of  Ireland.  .  General  Samkgßoosc  himself  arrived  at  Cove  on  the  9th,  in  the  Niobe  frigate.  As  soon  as  the  fleet  has  refitted,  it  is  to  sail  again  imme immediately.  diately. immediately.  S  I'  A  I  N  .  AFTER  the  accounts  we  continue  to  receive,  through  vari various  ous various  directions,  and  from  unobjectionable  eye-witnesses,  of  the  unabating  ardour  and  spirit  of  resistance  manifested  by  the  great  majority  of  the  Spanish  nation,  it  cannot  fail  to  excite  astonishment,  that  the  result  of  their  efforts  has  been  hitherto  so  unpropitious;  and  that  a  numerous  population,  animated  with  the  courage  and  enthusiasm  they  unquestionably  displa3-  ed,  was  nevertheless  incapable  of  affording  a  more  effectual  re resistance.  sistance. resistance.  We  will  attempt  to  explain  this  difficulty.  As.soOn  as  Bonaparte  had  succeeded  in  disuniting  the  unfortunate  Royal  Family  of  Spain,  and  in  getting  afterwards  these  victims  of  his  treachery  and  intrigues  into  his  power,  his  first  step  was  to  secure  by  promises,  or  intimidation,  the  persons  of  the  most  distinguished  characters  iu  that  country.  They  were,  iu  like  manner,  transported,  or  ordered  to  repair  to  Bayonne.  In  the  mean  time,  the  inhabitants  of  most  of  the  provinces  rose,  spontaneously  and  unexpectedly  to  resent  the  unparalleled  out outrage.  rage. outrage.  New  men  immediately  appeared  to  guide  and  direct  the  efforts  of  the  inhabitants  and  to  fill  the  vacancies,  which  had  been  occasioned  by  the  absence  of  those  who  had  formerly  the  administration  of  the  provinces,  and  had  filled  the  principal  places  under  Government.  The  peTFODS,  into  *hose  hands  the  direction  of  affairs  thus  accidentally  fell,  had  courage,  zeal,  and  enthu enthusiasm  siasm enthusiasm  ;  hut  they  possessed  no  experience,  and  were  totally  un unacquainted  acquainted unacquainted  with  the  resources,  and  ignorant  of  the  administra administrative  tive administrative  details  of  their  respective  provinces.  They  bad  the  means  of  fomenting  and  keeping  the  popular  indignation  alive;  but  were  not  vested  with  sufficient  authority  to  exact  and  enforce  from  their  fellow-citizens,  the  performance  of  those  duties,  and  a  submission  to  those  privations,  which  resistance  on  a  large,  habitual,  and  uniform  scale  necessarily  demanded  e—a  resist resistance  ance resistance  sufficient  to  oppose  the  undivided  strength  of  the  French  empire,  guided  by  au  active,  vigilant,  versatile,  and  intelligent  Chieftain,  possessing,  in  the  highest  degree,  the  confidence  of  his  troops,  enjoying  the  reputation  of  uniform  success,  judici judicious,  ous, judicious,  beyond  any  comparison,  in  the  choice  of  his  expedients,  and  prompt,  to  a  degree  before  unparalleled,  in  their  employ employment.  ment. employment.  The  uncontrolled  power,  he  besides  exercised  over  the  vast  empire  he  governs,  placed  means  at  his  discretion,  and  fur furnished  nished furnished  him  with  a  facility  and  celerity  of  execution,  which  no  modern  government  does  or  can  possess.  .  The  organization  of  his  military  force  is  such,  that  the  more  we  observe  it,  the  more  reason  we  have  to  admire.  The  same  admirable  order  prevails  in  the  civil  administration  ;  so  that  a  single  word,  the  slightest  enunciation  of  his  will,  is  sufficient  to  give  vigour  and  rapidity  to  every  wheel,  to  the  most  trifling  spring  of  the  immense  machine  which  he  directs.—To  oppose  success successful  ful successful  and  continued  resistance  to  such  a  man  the  new  leaders  did  not  possess  sufficient  talents,  experience,  authority,  or  confidence.  Fortunately,  however,  for  the  Spanish  nation,  the  greater  part  of  the  force  he  could  bring  to  hear  on  them,  was  at  the  distance  of  8  and  1200  miles  from  their  frontiers  !  and  the  army,  he  had  in  Spain,  from  a  miscalculation  easily  to  be  accounted  for,  and  P12_TB00013 '  •  -  P12_TB00014 1  1 STYLE=superscript  ."
