text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  FEB.  5.  Doke  of  York  at  this  time?  A.  It  was  so  uuderstood  at  the  time.  Q.  Did  you  ever  see  the  Duke  of  York  at  Mrs.  Clarke's?  A.  Never.  Q.  (By  Mr.  Fuller)  Of  your  own  knowledge  do  you  know  of  such  a  relative  situation  between  them  ?  (a  laugh).  A.  I  don't  understand  the  question.  Q.  (By  Mr.  Wilberforce)  What  passed  between  you  and  Mrs.  Clarke,  as  far  as  the  interview  has  left  any  impression  on  your  mind  ?  A.  When  I  first  came,  she.  Mrs.  Clarke,  talked  much  of  di  ffi  culty,  and  of  secrecy,  and  of  the  danger  she  incurred  if  any  thing  she  did  was  permitted  to  transpire.  Q.  (By  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer).  What  were  her  words  ?  A.  Ido  not  recollect  ;  that  vra,s  her  meaning.  Q.  Did  yon  not  know  from  Mr.  Knight  that  the  Exchange  was  in  train  of  being  effected  before  Mrs.  Clarke's  influence  %%a,  asked  ?  A.  I  understood  it  would  have  been  done  in  time.  DIN.  Clarke  was  only  asked  to  expedite  it.  It  was  a  fair  thing,  and  would  have  gone  regularly  through  the  office.  EXAMINATION  OF  MR.  It.  KNIGHT.  Q.  Did  Mrs.  Robert  knight  desire  Dr.  Thynne  to  use  his  in-  Suenre  with  Mr.  Clarke,  for  the  purpose  of  expediting  an  ex exchange  change exchange  between  Colonel  knight  and  Colonel  Brooke  ?  A.  1  did.  Q.  Did  he  authorise  Dr.  Thynne  to  hold  out  any  pecuniary  temptation  to  Mrs.  Clarke  for  that  purpose  ?  A.  Yes.  Q.  To  what  amount  ?  A.  2001.  Q.  After  the  exchang  e  was  e  ff  ected,  did  Mr.  Knight  send  any  money  to  Mrs.  Clarke  ?  A.  I  did.  Q.  To  what  amount?  A.  2001.  Q.  Had  Colonel  Knight  any  positive  promise  from  die  Com Commander  mander Commander  in  Chief  that  he  should  be  exchanged,  prior  to  the  appli application  cation application  to  Mrs.  Clarke?  A.  My  brother  had  applied  in  the  re regular  gular regular  way,  and  received  the  usual  official  answer,  that  whenever  a  proper  successor  could  be  found,  there  would  be  no  objection  to  comply  with  his  request.  Q.  Why  was  an  application  made  to  Mrs.  Clarke  on  the  sub subject  ject subject  ?  A.  Some  delay  had  taken  place,  of  the  cause  of  which  !  was  ignorant.  I  stated  it  to  Dr.  Thynne,  who  recommended  me  to  apply  to  Mrs.  Clarke;  and  I  authorised  him  to  do  so,  and  to  offer  her  2001.  to  facilitate  my  brother's  object.  Q.  In  what  manner  was  the  2001.  conveyed  to  Mrs.  Clarke  ?  A.  By  my  servant,  under  a  blank  cover.  Q.  Did  Mr.  Knight  see  Mrs.  Clarke  soon  after  the  exchang  e  bad  been  Gaxettedi  and  if  so,  for  what  purpose  ?  A  . STYLE=superscript  I  saw  hr  in  September,  to  thank  her  for  her  exertions.  Q.  On  that  occasion  did  Mrs.  Clarke  request  secrecy  on  the  transaction,  and  did  she  assign  any  reason  for  that  request  ?  A.  Mrs.  Clarke  entreated  that  I  would  he  secret  with  respect  to'the  transaction,  lest  it'should  come  to  the  Duke  of  York's  ears.  Q.  Has  Mr,  Knight  seen  Mrs.  Clarke  within  the  last  mouth  ?  A.  ).  - STYLE=superscript  eF.  Q.  How  happened  it  that  he  saw  her  ?  A.  9he  sent  me  a  note,  to  which  I  made  no  reply.  Ten  days  ago  she  sent  me  another  tote,  upon  which  I  called  on  her,  and  she  asked  me  he  name  or  the  Officer  who  bad  exchanged  with  my  brother.  Shn  made  o  number  of  complaints  of  the  ill  treatment  she  hail  experienced  from  his  Royal  flightless  the  Duke  of  York;  who  hail  left  her  WOOL  in  debt,  and  expressed  her  determination  to  expose  him  to  the  public,  unless  she  could  bring  , STYLE=superscript  him  to  terms.  I  said  that  it.  was  her  affair.  and  that  I  truste  d  would  not  produce  me  O  r  my  brother.  Her  reply  was  good  God!  no,  I  have  no  such  intention.  You  can  have  nothing  to  do  with  Q.  At  what  hour  of  the  day  did  Mr.  Knight  send  the  2001.  to  Mrs.  Clarke?  A.  Rather  early  in  the  forenoon.  Q.  In  his  conversation  with  Mrs.  Clarke  did  Mr.  Knight  un un-4erstand  4erstand un-4erstand  that  Mrs.  Clarke  had  actually  applied  to  the  Comman Commander  der Commander  in  Chief  to  expedite  his  brother's  exchange,  and  that  the  ex exchange  change exchange  waseffeeted  in  consequence  of  that  application  ?  A.  Of  course  Mrs.  Clarke  took  credit  to  herself  for  the  success  of  her  application.  Q.  Did  Mr.  Knight  ever  learn  from  Mrs.  Clarke  that  she  had  actually  applied  to  the  Commander  in  Chief  on  the  subject  ?  A.  She  told  me  so.  Q.  At  the  time  when  the  transaction  occurred,  did  Mrs.  Clarke  reside  in  Gloucester-place  ?.  A.  She  did.  •  Q.  Was  Wafter  Mrs.  Clarke's  application  to  the  Commander  In  Chief  that  she  requested'  secrecy.  A.  Yes.  Q.  Was  it  after  the  2001.  was  sent  to  Mrs.  Clarke  that  she  ex expressed  pressed expressed  adesire  that  the  trawaction  might  be  kept  a  secret  from  the  Duke  of  York  ?  A.  Yes.  Q.  Did  she  express  her  desire  to  conceal  from  the  Duke  of  that  2001.  had  been  paid  her,  or  what  were  her  words.  A.  87  She  requeted  that  the  whole  business  might  he  concealed  from  him.  Q.  Did  she  express  herself  particularly  as  to  tunnel'  or  in  ge general  neral general  conversation  on  the  transaction  itself?  A.  On  the  transac transaction  tion transaction  itself.  Q.  When  Mrs.  Clarke  expressed  a  wish  for  secrecy,  dirt,  sho  also  express  a  wish  that  his  Royal  highness  the  Duke  of  York  should  not  know  the  cin  umstatnce  ?  A.  Certainly.  Q.  Was  it  not  her  wish  that  the  transaction  should  be  kept  se secret  cret secret  from  the  ptihl  ic  ?  A.  From  HIM.  Q.  What  expressions  did  Mrs.  Clarke  use,  the  recollection  of  which  enabled  the  witness  now  to  state,  that  it  .was  1101  from  the  public,  but  from  the  Duke  of  York  himself  she  was  aox  ions  to  conceal  the.  transaction  that  had  taken  place?  A.  She  begged  that  it  might  be  kept  secret  from  his  Royal  Highness.  Q.  Was  she  more  anxious  to  keep  the  transaction  a  secret  front  the  Duke  of  York  than  from  the  public  ?  A.  The  public  was  never  mentioned  iu  the  business.  _  _  Q.  When  Mrs.  Clarke  intimated  her  intention  of  exposing  his  Royal  Highness,  did  she  particularise  the  measures  that  she  meant  to  pursue  fur  that  purpose  ?  A.  No.  Q.  Does  Mr.  Knight  recollect  the  expressions  which  she  used  on  the  occasion  ?  A.  Mrs.  Clarke  stated  that  the  had  bean  neg.  lotted  an  ill-used  by  his  Royal  IlighnesB,  and  that  if  he  wound  not  pay  her  debts  that  he  w  quid  expose  him.  Mr.  Knight  was  then  ordered  to  withdraw.  In  answer  to  an  observation  from  Mr.  Lascellec,  that  there  was  a  gallant  officer  present  who  could  give  the  House  informs.  tjon  with  respect  to  the  application  that  bail  been  inade  by  Co Colonel  lonel Colonel  Knight  for  permission  to  exchainge.  General  Loftus  staled  that  Colima  Knight  ha  'certainly  a-p  ?.  •  •  plied  to  him  on  the  subject,  and  had  explained  most  salisinete  4 STYLE=superscript  .  rily  his  wishes,  or  else,  as  Colonel  of  the'  Rugiment  he  *Wilt  not.  have  been  justified  in  giving  him  the  ktter  of  reoaumeeadac reoaumeeadaction,  tion, reoaumeeadaction,  which,  on  that  occasion  he  had  done.  EXAMINATION  OF  MRS.  CLARKE.  (By  Mr.  WAttni.E.)  Q.  Did  Mrs.  Clarke  reside  in  Gloucester-place  with  his  ap*  '  Highness  the  Duke  of  York  in  July  180(1?  A.  Yes,  IJ.  Q.  Was  she  at  that  time  uuder  hii  Royal  Highness's  pretet.  •tio  ?  A.  I  was.  •  Q.  Does  Mrs.  Clarke  recollect  Dr.  Thymus's  having  attended  her  professionally  ?  A.  About  that  time  Dr.  Tb)nite  did  at.  tend  me.  Q.  Does  she  recollect  an  application  made  to  her  by  Dr.  Tnynne,  to  use  her  influence  with  the  Commander  in  Chief.  for  the  purpose  of  expediting  an  exchange  between  Colonel  Knight  •  and  Colonel  Brooke  I  A.  I  do.  Q.  Did  Dr.  Thynno  bold  out  to  Mrs.  Clarke  the  expectation  of  any  pecuniary  complement  in  the  event  of  her  success?  A.  lie  did.  Q.  Any  particular  sum  ?  A.  Yes;  he  said  something  about  a  couple  of  hundred  pounds.  Q.  Does  Mrs.  Clarke  recollect  that  Dr.  Thyttne  told  her  thal  Colonel  Knight  had  long.  been  tr  ing  to  procure  the  exchange  for  w  Stich  he  was  solicitous  ?  A.  I  do.  Q.  Did  she  afterwards  speak  to  the  Commander  in  Chief  oa  the  ,object  ?  A.  Y  es,  l  did.  Q.  how  did  she  mention  the  business  to  him  ?  A.  I  told  his  R  o  y  a  l  itighness  of  it.  and  gave  him  the  paper  containing  the  name?:  of  the  parties,  that  had  been  been  put  into  my  hands  by  Thvnne.  Q.  l)id  Mrs.  Clark  at  the  same  time  state  to  the  Commander  in  Chief  that  she  expected  a  'pecuniary  recootpeace  for  her  trouble  ?  A.  I  said  that  the  parties  had  promised  to  make  noes  complement.  Q.  Did  she  state  the  amount  to  his  Royal  Melon.?  •A.  am  not  certain  whether  1  did  or  not.  Q  Is  Mr:.  Clarke  certain  tkatislie  mentioned  to  the  Cons Conswander  wander Conswander  io  Chief  her  expectation  of  recciv:ng,  any  pecuniary.  contpensattoti  ?  A.  I  told  hip)  Royal  tli;  httes3  that  I  did  not  know  the  men  at  all,  but  that  I  certainly  expected•  a  comple•  ment  from  them.  Q.  When  tlic  eXeltange  appeared  in  the  rsaaettc.  does  Alms.  C  -  recollect  sending  it  Dr.  - STYLE=superscript  Itt”ine  ?  A.  1  do,  Q  Did  she  ae  rvi  a  note  with  it?  A.  Vett.  Q.  Did  Mrs.  Clarke  receive  afterwards  any  pecaniery  coo;  sideration?  Yes,  1  dad.  Q.  II  o  w  1  A.  Two  hundred  potinds,  in  Bask  amts.  Q.  In  *hat  way  sent/  A.•  Inclosed  in  a  note,  witu•  Dr.  rh  %line%  compliments.  •  Q.  Did  Mrs.  Clarke  mate  known  the  receipt  of  itte  •  the  t7nintoander  iu  Chief?  A.  Yes,  I  did.  Q.  W  licit  did  she  mention  it  to  him  Oa  •  ;jr  P7_TB00013 I  ~~  P7_TB00014 ■  P7_TB00015 I  P7_TB00016 :s`;  ~  `#;  P7_TB00017 ~,  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  Ikuhject  of  Mt.  Knight's  business,  'and  that  of  others  by  menus  of  letters;  how  did  Colonel  Wardle  get  possesskm  of  these  letters?  A,  lie  took  then  up,  read  them,  kept  them,  and  I  never  could  get  them  hart.  Q.  How  did  these  letters  come  in  the  way  of  Colonel  War Wardle  dle Wardle  ?  A.  I  waS  removing  some  articles,  and  among  them  pa pawn,  wn, pawn,  and  this!.  happened  to  he  lying  loose,  and  be  took  them.  Q.  bid  he  take  them  away  with  the  consent  of  witness,  or  without  her  4utburity  ?  A..  He  did  not  take  thew  by  my  con consCnt.  sCnt. consCnt.  Qs,  Were  these  letters  written  to  witness  by  the  Duke  of  York  ?  A.  No,.  Q.  Whose  letters  were  they  ?  A.  They  were  from  different  Mends.  Q.  Did  witness  ever  hear  of  an  offer  of  money  front  the  Duke  of  1  - STYLE=superscript  ‘ofk  for  suppressing  the  publication  of  these  letters,  or  make  one  ?  A.  Never.  _  Q.  Did  witness  ever  threaten  to  put  these  letters  into  hands  that  wapiti  make  them  public,  unless  certain  claims  she  made  were  complied  with  ?  A.  Never.  I  never  wrote  to  any  one  best  to  Mr.  Adam  on  the  subject,  and  he  has  my  letters,  let  him  produce  them.  Interrogated  by  Lord  STAN  Lry.—Q.  Was  the  Duke  of  York  present  when  witness  received  the  letter  that  contained  the  2001.  ?  A.  No.  _  _  _  Q.  How  soon  did  witness  tell  the  Duke  of  it  ?  The  same  may.  tlutcrrogated  by  Sir  F.  Burdett).  Q.  Did  witness  receive  any  other  monies  for  transactions  Of  a  similacalescription  with  those  mentioned  by  Mr.  Knight?  A.  I  did  not  expect  to  be  ex examined  amined examined  as  to  any  other  subject  this  night.—Here  the  witness  was  permitted  to  withdraw.  Mr.  W.  ADAtit  thought  it  necessary  to  state  to  the  House,  that  so  far  back  as  the  year  17::9  he  had  been  honoured  with  a  com communication  munication communication  from  the  Duke  of  York  on  the  subject  of  his  pecan'.  are  concerns,  and  that  since  that  period  he  had  been  in  the  habit  of  directing  his  attention  to  his  Royal  Highness'  affairs.  It  came  to  his  knowledge  in  the  year  1805,  that  a  person,  calling  himself  tke  husband  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  had  brought  an  action  of  crint.  con.  against  the  illustrious  Duke.  This  circumstance  made  it  neces necessary  sary necessary  to  enquire  into  that  Lady's  affairs  ;  and  it  fell  to  his  lot  to  say  that  it  was  discovered  that  the  Lady's  conduct  had  not  been  so  correct  as  she  wished  to  represent  it.  Her  connection  with  his  Royal  Highness  it  was  apprehended  might  tend  to  injure  his  reputation,  not  in.  his  military  capacity  certainly,  but  with  re respect  spect respect  to  pecuniary  twitters,  by  her  extravagance  and  the  debts.  contracted.  At  this  period,  however,  the  Royal  Duke  was  not  inolined  to  believe  that  there  was  any  thing  wrong  in  the  conduct  of  this  Lady,  and  it  was  not  until  some  very  important  discoveries  were  made  that  his  !loyal  Highness  was  convinced  of  her  misbe misbehaviour.  haviour. misbehaviour.  She  had  repeatedly  endeavoured  to  extort  money  from  him,  and  these  attempts  could  be  brought  home  to  her  by  proof.  It  was  discovered,  that  in  1806,  Mr.  Clarke,  and  several  per person's,  son's, person's,  had  written  to  the  Duke  in  order  to  obtain  money.  Soon  stficr  he  had  an  interview  with  the  Lady,  his  Royal  Highness  baying  undertaken  to  defend  her  in  an  action,  in  which  she  had  described  herself  as  a  widow.  In  the  course  of  the  proceedings  it  appeared  that  she  was  a  married  woman.  Her  account  of  herself  was  very  contradictory;  on  one  occasion  she  sail  she  was  married  at  Pancras,  awl  on  another  at  Berkampstead,  where  her  father  was  a  farmer.  She  also  stated  that  her  husband  was  tile  nephew  of  Mr.  Alderman  Clarke.  His  Royal  Hir,liness  having  signified  his  wish  to  separate  from  this  lady,  he  (.Ir.  Adam)  was  asked  whether  he  had  any  objection  to  communi communicate  cate communicate  that  determination  to  her.  His  Royal  Highness  stated,  in  a  letter,  that  though  Mrs.  Clarke  had  not  in  any  respect  acted  correctly,  be  was  willing  to  give  her  an  annuity  of  4001.  a  year,  but  his  Royal  Ilighue.  , STYLE=superscript  3  tytainin4  the  power  to  withdraw  the  annuity  if  she  mi,conductea  herself.  Havoig  communicated  the  message  of  his  Royal  Highness,  he  left  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  bad  not  teen  her  from  that  time  to  the  present.  The  ATTORNEY  GESEHAL  then  put  several  questions  to  Colonel  Wardel  Q.  I  would  ask  the  Hon.  Member  whether  he  collected  what  he  stated  to  the  House  from  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  w  hether  he  has  stated  any  information  that  we  did  not  collect  from  her?  A.  1  bad  a  good  deal  of  information  from  her,  which  I  wrote  in  any  memorandum-book  ;  she  said  much  to  me.  Q.  Does  the  lion.  Member  know  whether  she  told  him  on  Thursday,  :he  25th  of  J  uly,  the  payment  of  the  200/.  was  made  ?  A.  From  her  a,•:iertions,  from  first  to  last,  no  doubt  remains  on  my  mind  that  she  did.  TheCUAN  zt.on  of  the  EXCLIZQVER  was  anxious  to  know  FEE';  5.  w  hat  courie  .the  Honourable  Member  who  brought  forward  this  question  intended  to  purNe.  Colonel  WARDLE  was  as  desirous  as  any  gentleman  could  be  that  the  business  might  be  proceeded  in  with  every  possible  dispatch.  It  would,  however,  be  necessary  for  him  to  wait  the  arrival  from  Spain  of  several  essential  witnesses,  among  orbefs  Captain  Huxley  Sande!),  and  hl:3jor-General  French.  Todeed  he  could  not  well  say  when  they  would  arrive,  as  no  return  having  been  made  of  the  killed  and  wounded,  it  was  impossible  to  say  whether  they  were  living.  After  some  pointed  diiimaeversions  from  Mr.  ADAM,  Mr.  WAR  nLE  assured  the  House  he  should  be  ready  to  bring  for forward  ward forward  Captain  Maling's  case  on  Friday.  It  was  then  ordered,  on  the  Motion  of  Mr.  Wit  A  !MIN,  that  the  minutes  of  evidence,  taken  that  night,  be  printed  and  laid  before  the  Hoase-  TIIVIttoDAY,  1:13.  2.  INCREASE  OF'  THE  ARMY.  Lord  CA  STLER  EA  Gil/  having  moved  the  second  reading  of  the  Militia  Enlistment  Bill,  said,  that  it  surely  was  not  necessary  for  him  to  enter  upon  a  detail  of  the  reasons  for  a  large  military  force  at  present.  The  executive  Government  ought  to  intim'  a  sufficient  force,  if  possible,  both  for  foreign  exertions  and  home  defence.  As  long  as  the  people  of  Spain  were  true  to  themselves,  we  were  bound  by  duty  and  interest  to  support  them.  He  could  nut  believe  the  struggle  to  be  at  an  end;  but  if  it  were  at  an  end.  something  might  grow  out  of  that  circumstance  which  might  atford  a  field  for  British  exertion.  Great  interests  might  be  at  stake  at  a  distance.  as  well  as  at  home.  and  it  was  proper  to  be  precared.  A  deduction  for  the  losses  in  Spain  must  be  made,  and  he  stated  that  a  very  considerable  proportion  of  the  battalions  of  the  army  (about  56)  were  below  six  hundred  rank  'mod  tile,  and  the  addition  by  this  measure  would  only  raise  these  to  900  rank  and  file.  In  the  army  that  went  to  Portugal,  the  first  battalions  had  been  filled  up  from  the  second,  which  rendered  it  a  very  efficient  army,  29,000  being  comprised  in  32  battalions;  and  this  measure  was  intended  to  fill  up  the  deficiency,  and  also  to  supply  the  casualties  in  Spain.  His  Lordship  then  observed,  that  even  while  the  country  were  labour labouring  ing labouring  under  these  measures,  and  under  the  burthens  of  unlimitled  service,  still  there  was  something  so  stubborn  in  the  nature  of  the  recruiting  service,  that  the  numbers  were  constantly  about  1,200  men  a  month  under  all  circumstances.  lie  contended,  that  it  was  necessary  to  allow  men  to  enter  for  unlimited  service  it  they  pleased,  as  this,  at  all  events,  would  leave  .a  permanent  feature  in  our  force.  lie  called  on  the  House  to  make  the  exer exertion  tion exertion  required,  as  it  was  their  first  ditty  to  their  country.  •It  was  impossible  that  at  present  there  could  be  any  danger  to  the  liberties  of  the  country,  not  only  by  the  checks  established,  bet  by  the  feeline,s  of  the  regular  army  itself,  which  felt  as  strong,ly  as  any  other  description  of  men  the  value  of  the  Constitution.  The  dangers  to  our  liberties  from  a  regular  army  were  past  e  or,  if  not,  the  checks  at  present  established  were  surely  sufficient.  Lord  TEst  eta:  said,  that  the  Noble  I.Grd  had  now  shewn  us  the  nature  and  spirit  of  the  measure,  for  the  transfer  was  not  now  made  on  an  emergency,  hut  in  contemplation  of  an  emer emergency.  gency. emergency.  So  that  this  was  now  to  become  a  regular  system  from  year  to  year.  This,  he  said,  was  a  very  bad  mode  of  increasing  the  regular  army,  and  as  a  regular  system,  he  had  the  strongest  objection  to  it.  His  Lordship  also  defended  the  plan  of  his  Right  Hon.  Friend  (Mr.  Windham),  and  stated,  that  when  the  Noble  Lord  laid  his  cold  fingers  upon  it,  it  was  producing  at  the  rate  of  24,000  a  year,  instead  of  the  13,000  produced  by  the  Noble  Lord  ;  and  out  of  the  27,000  that  volunteered  from  the  Militia,  20,000  were  for  limited  service  at  a  loWer  bounty.  The  pip  was  then  read  a  second  time,  and  ordered  to  becpats  mitted  on  Monday  nexto—Ad.;ourned,  FRIDAY,  FULL,  cOmyITTEE  Or  SITIPP&amp;T—NAVY  FSTIMATIM  The  nonce  hating  gone  19t0  ;Committee  of  Supply  oo  the  motion  of  Mr.  Iluskisson.  __  The  following  sums  were-Teta  t...  For  Wages  for  130,000  asesier  13  months,  at  the  rate  of  It.  17s.  per  man  per  month,  3,126,500  0  0  For  Victuals  for  130,090  men  for  13  months,  at  the  rate  of  21.  19s.  per  man  per  month,  4,985,500  0  0  For  wear  and  tear  for  the  Navy  for  130,000  men  for  13  months,  at  the  rate  of  1/..  19s.  per  man  per  month,  3,295,500  0  0  There  was  then  voted  to  provide  foe  out outstanding  standing outstanding  Exchequer  13ills  u  .  10  500,000  0  0  For  the  same  ;  .  .  .  4500,000  a  a  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  FEB.  5.  THE  DUKE  OF  YORK.  The  House  then  went  into  a  Committee.  Mr.  Wharton  in  the  Chair.  Mr:  Wardlp  rose  to  correct  an  inadvertent  error  in  his  testi.  'bony  on  Wednesday  night.  He  had  then  said,  that  he  had  not  been  with  Mrs.  Clarke  on  Tuesday  morning,  hut  had  seen  her  an  that  evening,  he  now  recollected  having  seen  her  twice  on  that  day,  though  not  on  the  day  bet  ., STYLE=superscript  .  , STYLE=superscript  re,  He  wished  therefore,  that  that  errpr  might  he  corrected,  The  'Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer.  Had  the  Honourable  Gentleman  any  conversation  with  Mrs.  Clarke  on  Tuesday  rela relative  tive relative  to  the  present  inquiry  ?  Mr.  Wardle.  No  conversation  of  any  moment.  Certainly  no  particular,  no  pointed  conversation.  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer.  Did  the  Honourable  Member  first  mention  the  charges  against  the  Commander  in  Chief  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  or  she  to  him  ?  Mr.  Wardle.  1  Palley  that  in  the  first  instance  I  put  some  questions  to  her  coareffling  what  I  had  heard,  and  that  it  was  in  consequence  of  those  queitions  I  got  from  her  the  information  1  did.  The  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer.  Could  the  Honmirable  Gentleman  state  from  whom  he  first  had  his  information  respect respecting  ing respecting  those  charges?  •  Mr.  Wardle.  It  would  be  impossible  for  me  to  do  so  t  I  could  not  with  proprjety  name  the  persons  from  whom  I  had  it.  The  Attorney-Ceittrul  called  upon  Mr.  Adam  to  produce  the  Intiers  sent  to  him  by  Mrs.  Clarke.  Mr.  Adani  then  produced  the  letters.  One  of  them  he  said  was  dated  June  the  190,  without  any  year,  and  it  was  in indorsed  dorsed indorsed  in  his  own  hand,  June  19,  1508.  The  other  was  dated  4 STYLE=superscript  ,  without  any  month  or  year.  The  first  letter  stated,  that  Mrs.  Clarke  had  applied  to  the  Poke  of  York  for  the  pasinent  of  her  promised  annuity  of  4001.  per  annum,  of  which  5001.  was  then  due  to  her,  but  to  no  hurpose.  She  found,  she  said,  that  he  was  a  man  d  ev STYLE=superscript  o  id STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  onour  and  principle,  and  that  his  word  could  not  be  relied  on.  She  requested  Mr.  Adam  to  inform  his  Royal  Highness,  that  qnleits  he  agreed  to  secure  her  annuity,  she  would  publish  every  circumstance  against  him  that  had  taken  place  during  their  con congection,  gection, congection,  and  al  his  letters  to  her,  which  amounted  to  something  efrious.  That  he  was  more  in  her  power  than  might  he  ima imaglued.  glued. imaglued.  But  she  wished  to  avoid  the  pain  she  herself  must  feel  at  exposing  him.  •  Before  she  did,  she  would  send  a  Copy  of  the  proposed  publication  to  his  family.  She  requested  that  he  Could  continue  his  protection  to  her  son,  or  got  him  into  the  Charteryhoase  School.  The  child  was  not  accountable  for  the  conduct  of  its  parent.  Mr.  Adam  stated,  that  this  child  w  as STYLE=superscript  not STYLE=superscript  by  the  !hike  of  York.  The  wowd  letter  was  dated  holler-street,  Cavendish-square.  It  begin  with  a  complaint,  that  she  had  received  nn  answer  to  her  former  letter  about  her  annuity.  She  stated,  she  was  en engaged  gaged engaged  in  committing  to  paper  i'll4  the  circumstances  to  which  site  had  alluded  in  her  former  letter,  and  that  she  had  about  50  cpr  60  letters  of  his  Royal  Highness's,  which  would  give  weight  to  her  charges.  She  had  promised,  she  said,  to  give  them  up  tnitlie  Tuesday  following,  and  it  would  be  afterwards  impossi impossible  ble impossible  to  recal  them.  It  was  pot  to  publishers  she  would  give  them,  but  to  Gentlem'en  as  opulent  as  his  Royal  Ilighoess,  and  More  independent  ;  and  if  the  Duke  did  Rot  OlieVe  her,  they  would.  He  might  do  as'he  pleased.  Theselotters  were  directed  to  Mr.  Adam,  Bloomsbury-square,  god  Signed  t•  M.  A.  Mr.  Aciax  examined  by  the  ATTOItNEY-  4 STYLE=superscript  1.:NERAL.  The  Attorney  General  asked,  whether  these  were  the  two  letters  alluded  to  in  Mrs.  Clarke's  evidence?  Mr:  Adam  re replied  plied replied  that  these  must  be  the  letters,  as  he  was  confident  he  bad  received  no  other,  except  perhaps  a  note  of  two  lines,  which  be  did  not  very  well  recollect;  it  was  not  in  his  possinsion.*  Attorney.,General.  Did  his  Royal  Highness  express  any  ap apprehension  prehension apprehension  as  to  what  Mrs.  Clarke  alight  lip  able  to  cuanunni cuanunniate  ate cuanunniate  ?•  A.  on  vat:Owe.  Q.  Did  you  communicate  the  letters  or  their  contents  to  his  Royal  Highnieis?  .  A.  Yes,  I  did.  Q.  The  Letters  'themselves?  A.  Yes,  the  letters  themselyes,  }ad  he  read  them  in  my  presence.  Q.  After  that  did  he  betray  the  slightest  apprehensions  ?  A.  clot  the  slightest.  Mr.•BEREsfoRD  considered  it  as  a  degradation  to  the  House  %o  prOceed  farfherinto  the  history  of  this  infarnmis  woman,  for  go  he  must  call  her.  Pancitvat.  sold,  if  he  were  called  upon  to  give  his  opi-  4414.*  In  %wßose  pouei4ion  is  the  Note  9  \  l  lion,  even  as  the  'Me  'WWI,  he  could  have  no  hesitation  iu  saying,  that  the  evidence  of  the  wi:ness  was  not  to  'be  relied  upon,  If  Mrs.  Clarke  had  said,  that  she  had  never  represented  herself  as  a  widow,  and  if  it  could  be  proved  that  sue  had  so  represented  herself,  and  got  credit  upon  that  ground,  it  woe  certainly  a  very  important  circumstance,  and  still  more  so,  if,  upon  payment  of  her  debts  being  demanded,  she  had  turned  round  and  represepteil  herself  as  a  married  woman.  was,  besides,  another  fact,  which  it  was  very  material  to  ascertain.  llis  Ilonoorahle  and  [maimed  Friend  could  prove,  or  imagined  he  could  prove,  that  this  woman,  who  had  said  that  her  hop.  hand  was  engaged  iu  no  business,  did  live  with  her  husband  who  was  a  mason  with  three  children.  All  this  ought  to  he  prodnee4  fur  the  satisfaction  of  the  Ilouse,  and  he  hoped  that  it  would  have  its  full  force,  because  the  corpus  dairti  in  this  ewe  de,  pended  entirely  on  her  evidence.  There  was  no  doubt  that  money  had  been  given,  but  the  question  was,  whether  lois  Royal  Highness  knew  of  that  circumstance,  and  had  been  smiled  upon  by  her  influence  to  grant  promotions  and  exchanges  in  the  army.  This  depended  entirely  upon  her  testimony,  r  o  ad  therefore  it  was  material  to  skew,  in  the  most  satisfactory  mom.  ncr,  that  her  evidence  was  unworthy  of  the  least  credit.  The  A  TIO  RN  EY  UEN  ERA  L.  said,  that  in  the  evidence  which  he  adduced  he  always  looked  at  the  distinct  point  under  toast.  deration.  The  subject  here  was  the  conduct  of  his  Royal  High Highness  ness Highness  the  Duke  of  I  ark,  with  regard  to  the  army;  mid  the  par particular  ticular particular  question  was,  whether  he  had  conducted  himself  core  ropily  in  granting  commissions  with  a  view  to  put  money  in  the  pockets  of  those  whom  he  wished  to  favour.  That  there  Were  persons  about  h  i  as  almost  always  happened  in  such  cases  '  s%  he  represeoted  themselves  as  possessed  of  influence  i  and  ('sat  thew  were  dupes  credulous  enough  to  believe  them.  and  to  waste  their  moues—he  had  no  doeht.  No  witness  had  attempted  to  fix  any  charge  upon  his  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  'erk  but  Ildirs  t  Clarke  ;  and  if  the  cause  Had  been  before  a  jury,  the  jade  would  immediately  tell  theni  l  that  it  could  pot  stand  a  moment  upon  the  testimony  of  sock  a  witness,  even  from  her  own  admits  The  NTTORN  EY7GEN  ER  4.  tin  desired  landovick  Armor  to  be  called.  Mrs.  Clarke,  he  observed,  had  said  that  she  was  sure  the  Duke  of  York  knew  she  got  the  'lOOl.  because  his  sorwaut  had  been  sent  by  him  to  get  it  changed.  [Judos  ick  Armor  examined  by,  the  ATTORN  EV•GgNER  A  L.  Q.  In  whose  service  are  you?—A.  In  that  of  his  Royal  flightless  the  Duke  of  York.  •  Q.  How  long  have  you  been  in  his  service  ?  A.  Eighteen  years  next  September.  -  Q.  Were  ally,  and  what  servants  accustomed  to  attend  his  Royal  Highness  on  these  occasions?  A.  None  but  myself.  (.  During  how  luitg  was  the  witness  in  the  halm  of  going  to  his  Royal  Highness  at  Gloucester-place  ?  A.  Front  kW  to  9.  What  was  the  single  occasion  on  which  he  saw  Mrs.  Clarke?  A.'  When  he  took  a  favourite  dog  of  his  Royal  High Highness  ness Highness  for  Mrs.  Clarke  to  see.  --Q.  Was  you  ever  seut  by  his  Royal  Highness  or.  rs.  Clarke  while  at  Gloucester  -place  to  get  a  mite  changed  A.  Never.  Q.  Was  the  is  itness  lent  by  any  one  at  that  place  to  get  a  note  ehaaged  ?  A.  No.  Examirrd  by  Mr.  WARDLE.  Q.  The  witness  has  taken  it  loan  himself  to  say  that  no  other  servant  went  to  Gloucester-place  to  the  Duke  of  York  but  hints  self.  On  what  ground  does  he  say  so  ?  A.  Becanse  I  had  ordera  to  bring  those  things  and  no  other  servant  ;  no  other  servant  was  permitted  to  do  it.  Q.  He  asked  whether  the  witness  could  assert  that  no  other  servant  took  a  letter  to  Mrs.  Clarke  to  Gloucester-place  ?  None  but  me.  Q.  1  understood  you  to  say  that  no  otherservant  of  the  Bugs  carried  letters  ther,e  to  your  kuowledge  ?—A.  None  to  my  .  knowledge.  Q.  I  think  he  said  he  only  saw  Mrs.  Clarke  once  at  Gloucester Gloucesterplace  place Gloucesterplace  ?  A.  Only  once.  By  Sir  F.  BURDETT.  Q.  Had  yoa  any  communication  with  rosy  one  as  t  o  th  e  ev  i.,  deuce  vou  have  given  to-night  ?  A.  His  Royal  Highness  asked  me  if  I  had  ever  changed  a  note.  Q.  Had  you  any  communication  witb  any  person  besides  his  Royal  Highness  ?  A.  I  was  asked  the  same  question  by  Mr.  Adam.  Q.  Had  yoi  any  conversation  with  any  other  person  on  the  same  subject  ?  A.  Iresor  it  h  Mr.  Wilkinson.  Q.  Will)  is  be?  A.  lie  is  a  Geetilmskfrutn  Mr.  Low  teas  P11_TB00008 }  P11_TB00009 t STYLE=superscript  'p"
