text
"APRIL  2.  tatives  of  the  People  at  large  ?—(lnad  applause).  Had  the  'louse  of  Commons.  been  composed  of  a  representation  of  the  people,  he  was  persuaded  that  Mr.  Wardle,  so  far  from  being  left  in  a  minority,  would  have  carried  his  motion  unanimously.  After  paying  some  high  compliments  to  Mr.  Samuel  Whitbread,  fiir  Francis  Illo.dett,  Lord  Folkestone,  Sir  Samuel  Romilly,  Mr.  Cony  en,  Sir  Thomas  Torton,  General  Ferguson,  and  the  other  Gentlemen  who  had  supported  Mr.  Wardle  in  the  course  of  the  Invest  lotion,  he  caoctuded  with  moving  a  series  of  Resolutions.  Resolved  unanimously,  Ist.  That  the  inhabitants  of  this  city,  from  the  means  of  infor information  mation information  which  their  local  situation  affords  them,  have  long  been  aware  of  the  existence  of  scandalous  and  corrupt  practices  various  departments  of  the  state,  and  by  the.  late  investigation  in  the  Honourable  the  House  of  Commons,  the  fact  has  been  made  manifest  to  !very  part  c,f  the  United  K  ingdom.  Sd.  That  Gwillym  Lloyd  Wardle,  Esq.  by  his  singular  intre intrepidity  pidity intrepidity  nnd  integrity  in  instituting  an  Inquiry  into  the  Conduct  Of  His  114,yal  highness  the  Onke  of  York,  and  by  persevering  in  that  Inquiry,  in  spite  of  the  greatest  difficulties  and  the  most  formidable  discouragement,  has  rendered  an  impoctant  service  to  his  country,  and  merits  tke  grateful  thanks  and  warmest  ap approbation  probation approbation  of  this  Meetipg.  •  The  next  Resolutions  went  to  give  the  Thanks  of  the  Meeting  to  Sir  Francis  Burdett,  Lord  Folkstone,  Mr.  Whitbread,  and  the  other  Members  of  the  House  of  Commons,  who  more  parti particularly  cularly particularly  gave  their  support  to  Mr.  Wardle  in  the  course  of  the  investigation,  and  to  those  Members  who  voted  in  the  minority  on  Mr.  Wardle's  Motion,  on  . STYLE=superscript  the  Amendment  to  Mr.  Percival's  Motion,  proposed  by  Sir  Thomas  Turton  ;  auJ  on  Mr.  Banks's  Motion.  _  The  sixth  Resolution  stated  the  unanimous  opinion  of  the  Mectinz,  That,  after  the  concurrin,  declaration  of  so  many  indepen indepen•  • indepen•  dent  Representatives  of  tke  People,  whoever  shall,  at  any  future  time,  advise  his  Majesty  to  reinstate  his  Royal  Migliness  the  Duke  of  York  in  the  situation  of  Com►nander  in  Chief,  will,  by  such  advice,  prove  himself  an  enemy  to  the  And  the  seventh,  That  the  discoveries  made  by  thil  inquiry,  as  well  as  the  attention  which  has  been  paid  by  the  House  of  Commons  to  the  investigation  of  the  Charges  brought  in  this  par particular  ticular particular  instance,  ought  to  animate  the  people  to  prosecute  In Inquiry  quiry Inquiry  and  Reform  in  all  the  departments  of  the  state  ;  and  they  recommend  to  every  cout4y,  city,  and  borough  of  the  Unitnti  Kingdom,  whenever  the  present  state  of  the  elective  hotly  will  admit,  to  follow  the  example  which  it  has  been  the  duty  and  pride  of  the  City  of  Westminster  to  set  them,  of  returning,  free  of  ex  pence,  honest  and  independent  Representatives,  iv  ho  shall  hayse  no  interest  but  that  of  restoring  what  was  obviously  wanted  s—integrity  and  economy  in  the  feccipt  and  expenditure  of  the  public  money,  and  of  preserving  inviolate  the  rights  and  privi privileges  leges privileges  of  the  Mr.  WISHART  supported  the  Resolutions.  He  was  per persuaded,  suaded, persuaded,  that  had  the  case  of  the  Duke  of  York  been  submitted  to  any,  jury  of  twelve  men,  it  was  impossibte  but  that  they  must  have  found  him  guilty  of  the  charges  brought  against  hint.  Sir  FRANCIS  BURDETT  declared,  that  tile  late  occasion  had  shcwn  More  than  ever  the  necessity  of  a  Parliamentary  Reform.  The  people  intt  of  doors  were  gnat:boons  in  condemning  the  Duke  of  York,  while  a  majority  in  the  House  of  Commons  thought  proper  to  acquit  him.  Had  the  II  ou4  of  Commons  been  chosen  fairly  and  freely,  • STYLE=superscript  as  by  the  Constitution  it  ought  to  be,  there  could  he  no  doubt  but  that  the  decision  or  the  House  of  Commons  Would  have  assimilated  with  the  feeliogs  of  the  peo people  ple people  out  of  doors.  With  if  egard  to  the  Bill  brought  in  by  the  Vll'lllo'llor  of  the  Exchequer,  for  preventing  atinses  in  tbe  futore  disposal  of  otiiees,  he  could  ant  help  considering  it  as  a  gross  delosion  On  the  public.  It  was  an  attack  n  - STYLE=superscript  .  1  the  minor  agents  of  corruption,  while  it  left  the  principals  untouched.  (Loud  applattNe.)  The  Honourable  Baronet  compared  the  situation  of  the  country  to  that  of  Prometheus,  as  fa].]od  by  the  poets,  w  hose  liver  was  supposed  to  he  renewed  as  fast  as  it  vvas  devoured  by  a  vulture.  The  industry  et'  the  country  was  de devoured  voured devoured  by  the  vulture  of  corruption.  (Laud  applause.)  Stone  had  been  led  away  with  an  idea  that  the  sub:eet  was  one  of  par part  t part  ieular  ez.licacy,  because  the  favourite  son  nf  the  King  was  the  person  accused  ;  but  he  could  not  see  tint  it  was  a  subject  on  which  any  . STYLE=superscript  delicacy  ought  to  he  shewn.  One  particular  feature  of  the  busiors  he  could  mit  help  noticing,  and  that  was,  the  anxiety  which  ninny  Members  of  tie  House  of  Cornmhos  had  shewn  to  ,diselnim  all  partiripat  lot)  of  feeling  with  the  people  out  of  doors  a  poll  tine  occasion;  and  it  so  happened,  that  lie  House  of  Comtaotts  wits  perhaps  the  only  sp:)i  in  Europe  where  the  fedi:4;s  bait:  Antimeuts  of  the  people  of  Logland  were.  pru-  243  fessedly  disregarded.  Was  this  decent  with  revird  to  the  peo people  ple people  of  England  ?  Could  this  possibly  happen  if  the  House  of  Commons  were  constituted  as  it  ought  to  be  ?  The  lion.  Hato-  net  considered  the  Committees  of  inquiry,  and  Committees  ap appointed  pointed appointed  to  examine  into  Abuses,  as  mere  delusions,  which.eould  be  attended  with  no  good  effects  whatever.  The  House  of  Com.  mans  was  unsound,  and  as  long  as  it  continued  so,  they  could  hope  for  no  radical  reform  of  abuse.  (Loud  applause).  It  was  not  to  new  laws  that  they  had  occasion  to  have  recourse  for  the  correction  of  abuses  ;  they  had  only  to  require  the  execu execution  tion execution  of  toe  oltl  eoh  , STYLE=superscript  titutional  laws  of  the  realm—Magna  Charta  and  the  Bill  of  Rights.  Ile  next  adverted  to  the  severe  sentences  which  had  of  late  years  been  passed  in  that  Hall  (the  sentences  of  Messrs.  White  and  Hart);  and  contended  that  they  would  never  have  been  tolerated,  had  the  House  of  Commons  been  the  true  representative  body  of  the  people.  The  Hon.  Baronet  con.  eluded  with  recommending  Parliamentary  Reform  as  the  only  clurse  to  be  adopted  whic!l  could,  in  the  present  state  of  the  world,  preserve  the  country  from  foreign  subjugation.  It  was  a  matter  of  indifference  to  him  who  were  Ministers,  because  he  (lid  not  see  that  any  one  class  of  men  pursued  the  public  good  more  than  another  when  they  got  into  place;  and  therefore  he  was  convinced  that  nothing  but  Parliamentary  Reforin  could  save  the  nation.  _  _  Mr.  W11111311E49  thanked  the  Meeting  for  the  honour  they  had  done  him  in  mentioning  his  name  o  frequently  in  their  Re Resolutions;  solutions; Resolutions;  but  he  could  not  help  saying,  that  he  had  .done  no  more  than  Lis  duty  (Loud  applause.);  and  therefore  he  saw  no  reasorf  why  he  ought  to  be  thanked.  1t  was  undoubtedly  grati gratifying  fying gratifying  to  him,  tart  on  this  occasion  he  hacl  .riven  his  vote  in  con conformity  formity conformity  with  the  popular  sentiment  ;  but  had  '- STYLE=superscript  it  been  otherwise,  the  evidence  was  so  strong  and  :,o  fully  substantiated,  that  he  shoula  have  voted  as  he  did,  and  as  in  his  conscience  he  felt  he  was  bound  to  do.  (Loud  applause).  iie  concurred  with  the  lion.  Baronet  in  the  necessity  of  a  Parliamentary  Reform,  a  measure  which  he  had  always  advocated;  and  said,  that  he  had  no  dont);  but  that  it  might  he  effected  by  the  temperate  and  un unanimous  animous unanimous  exertions  of  the  people..  The  recent  example  of  the  resignation  of  the  Commander  in  Chief  was  a  striking  proof  of  what  the  people  could  do.  Ile  had  indeed  been  acquitted  by  a  majority  of  the  House  of  Commons;  but  the  voice  of  the  public  was  so  strongly  against  him,  that  it  was  impossible  for  him  to  retain  hi:,  situation.  In  the  same  way,  if  the  people  wished  for  a  Reform  in  Parliament,  and  were  equally  unani unanimous,  mous, unanimous,  he  had  no  doubt  but  a  Reform  in  Parliament  would  follow  in  six  months.  But  if  the  people  suffered  themselves  11  be  turned  aside  by  any  silly  delusion,  as  that  of  Jacobin Jacobinism,  ism, Jacobinism,  of  which  he  and  many  of  his  friends  had  formerly  been  accused,  or  the  more  recent  delusion  of  No  which  brought  the  present  Ministers  into  power,  their  enemies  would  always  lay  hold  of  such  pretexts  to  rei'use  Parliamentary  Re  form,  and,  as  long  as  the  people  continued  divided,  it  was  im-  The  Resolutions  were  then  put  and  carried  unanimously.  pos  . STYLE=superscript  sible  it  should  be  obtained.  lie  disagreed  in  opinion  front  the  lion.  Baronet,  that  it  was  a  matter  of  indifference  who  were  Ministers,  because  the  former  Ministers  had  shewn  that  they  would  not  remain  in  office  merely  for  the  sake  of  re receiving  ceiving receiving  their  'salaries;  and  he  thought  the  people  had  acted  unfairly  by  their  - STYLE=superscript  friends  in  suffering  them-elves  to  be  led  away  by  the  cry  of  as  they  had  been.  Parlia Parliamentary  mentary Parliamentary  Reform  could  only  be  accomplished  by  the  firm  and  temperate  eNpression  of  the  will  of  the  people;  and  when whenever  ever whenever  the  people  became  unanimous  in  its  favour,  there  was  no  doubt  but  it  must  be  carried.  Mr.  Whitbread  concluded  with  returning;  thanks  to  the  Meeting  for  their  patient  hearing,  and  was  cheered  with  loud  and  repeated  huzzas.  It  was  also  unanimously  resolved,  that  the  Thanks  of  this  Meeting  he  given  to  Arthur  Morris,  Esq.  the  High  Bailiff,  for  the  promptness  with  which  lie  called  this  Meeting,  and  for  his  impartial  conduct  in  the  Chair.  The  fleeting  then  broke  up,  and  Sir  Francis  Burdett,  Mr.  Whitbread,  and  the  other  gentlemen,  were  attended  by  the  po populace  pulace populace  to  the  King's  Arms,  in  Palace-V  ord."
