text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  thousand  souls.  The  flames  must  have  been  visible  to  a  censi  derable  extent,  from  the  commanding  situation  of  the  Theatre,  and  of  course  attracted  crowds  in  every  direction.  Russell Russellstreet,  street, Russellstreet,  Drury-lane,  Catherine-street,  Brvdges-street,  Charles Charlesstreet,  street, Charlesstreet,  Bow-street.  Tavistock.-areet,  Long-acre,  and  Covent Coventgarden,  garden, Coventgarden,  were  absolutely  filled  with  spectators.  Such  was  the  force  of  the  conflagration,  that  its  heat  was  strongly  felt  at  the  church  in  Covent-garden.  The  Police  Officers  were  unretnittlar  in  their  vigilance  and  attention,  and  the  avenues  to  the  Theatre  were  guarded  by  strong  detachments  from  the  horse  and  foot  guards,  and  several  of  the  volunteer  corps.  Only  one  life,  we  believe,  was  lost.  A  fireman  is  stated  to  have  been  killed,  and  two  other  firemen  wounded;  and  a  lad,  who  was  assisting  the  playing  of  the  (ire  cogines,  broke  his  arm.  The  orieination  of  this  catastrophe  is  not  satisl'actorily  ex explained.  plained. explained.  It  is  generally  admitted,  by  those  persons  who  fir::t  gave  th?  usual  alarm  of  lire,  that  the  tire  commenced  in  the  upper  part  of  the  house  ;  and  the  present  supposition  is,  (as  plumbers  were  employed.  during  the  earls  hours  of  eireday,  in  repairing  the  lower  part  of  the  roof  and  reservoir)  that  sonic  combustible  materials,  negligently  left  behind,  communicated  to  the  wood,  and  eventually  spread  their  effect  into  the  appart appartments  ments appartments  immediately  over  the  coffee-room  of  the  Theatre.  An  appearance  of  fire,  at  about  a  quarter  after  eleven  o'clock,  is  said  to  have  been  perceived  at  a  window,  on  the  second  story  of  this  building,  fronting  Russel-street,  without  exciting  any  properdegree  of  apprehension,  till,  about  twenty  minutes  after afterwards,  wards, afterwards,  the  entire  upper  part  of  the  theatre  burst  into  one  tremendous  burning  !  The  cupola  and  Om  Apollo,  which  fell  in  about  It  o'clock,  and  which,  in  every  direction,  formed  such  prominent  objects  of  contemplation,  were  for  some  time  clearly  and  sublimely  distinguishable.  The  spectacle  of  real  desolation  which  the  structure  afforded,  when  contemplated  from  Blackffiars-bridge  at  t‘vel  ve  o'clock,  far  surpassed  in  magnificence  any  of  the  mimic  representations  hich  were  ever  viewed  within  its  walls.  The  shell  of  the  building  was  then  entire,  and  the  upper  ramie  of  'l4  inflows  and  the  balustrade  above,  forming  the  whole  length  of  the  edifice.  being  raised  above  all  the  adjoiving  buildings.  and  thrown  into  strong  relief  by  the  flame,  resembled  the  ant  tent  a  qnedacts  which  are  still  remaining  in  the  Somth  of  Europe.-  From  the  frame  of  the  edifice  arose  a  broad  stwet  of  flame  :  no  wind  stirred  to  break  the  symmetry  of  its  ascent,  so  that  it  terminated  in'a  fiery  This  vast  splendid  body  threw  an  interesting  light  on  the  surrounding  objects.  The  Thames  and  St.  Paul's  were  rendered  unusually  beautiful.  Thus  the  effect  was  rather  that  of  an  e  laborate  work  of  art  than  of  a  fatal  casualty,  to  be  lamented  by  all  the  Arts.  Astonishing,  indeed,  was  the  electric  rapidity  with  which  this  tire  communicated  itself  throughout  the  w  hole  of  the  then thentre.  tre. thentre.  Words  can  convey  no  adequate  conception  of  time  awfully  interesting  . STYLE=superscript  spectacle.  Mute  with  surprise,  silent  in  despair,  and  full  of  the  recollection  of  another  similar  recent  calamity,  the  th  naming  multitude  seemed  assembled  for  no  purpose  so  much  as  inwardly  t  o  m  o  ralise  upon  the  scene  - STYLE=superscript  of  destruction  !  Scarcely  a.  satire  teas  at  one  time  heard;  Every  one  stood  amazed,  per perplexed,  plexed, perplexed,  tremulous.  It  is  thus  that,  within  the  short  space  of  little  more  than  five  months,  the  two  great  Theatres  of  our  Metropolis  have  been  suddenly  and  entirely  consumed  ;  while  the  Palace  of  the  Nation  has  also  narrowly  •  escaped  the  ravages  of  the  saute  des:oaring  element.  Chance  and  carelessness,  however,  are  still  the  only  wises  to  which  mankind  appear  disposed  to  attribute  the  most  terrible  of  terrestrial  disasters!!!  A  ODITION  A  L  P  RTTVIJI,  111  S.  The  fee  begin  in  What  was  called  the  Chinese  lobby,  that  is  the  lobby  nodernelth  the  grand  lobby  which  faced  Brydges Brydgessueet.  sueet. Brydgessueet.  This  Chinese  lobby  was  the  second  entered  goinz  into  the  Theatre  from  / STYLE=superscript  131-v(l2;es-street  ;  it  was  usually  but  ill  lighted,  nod  from  it  ascended  two  stair-cascs  to  the  main  passages  smut  lobbies  level  with  the  hack  of  the  front  boxes.  According  to  the  origin:it  pl:in  Of  the  Theatre  this  Chinese  lobby  was  intended  to  he  surrounded  ttith  shops,  for  the  sale  of  various  articles,  s  uch  ac  g  10%1'  4 STYLE=superscript  ,  fruits,  e‘c.  during  the  performance.  The  shops  had  actually  been  made  since  the  opening  of  the  Theatre,  but  they  remaioell  shut  up  with  shutter=,  never  having  been  finished  or  opened  for  actual  use.  This  lobby  from  the  beginning  was  a  /.cnurite  tos  of  Mr.  Sheridan.  who  at  the  commencement  of  the  Theatre,  and  often  sluice  has  been  heard  to  bohst  what  a  pretty  thing  It  'I%  (mid  he  when  finished  and  opened  in  complete  style.  To  accomplish  this  had  only  been  determined  this  season,  during  the  w  hole  of  w  hich  the  entrance  to  the  Theatre  from  itrydgei.  street  has  been  shut  up,  that  this  lobby  and  the  bhops  in  it  might  be  finished  and.  opened.  It  was  nearly  ready,  the  varnishers  More  at  work  rather  late  I;.A  night,  and  from  negligence  the  fire  FEB.  26  happened.  lloa  it  happened  is  not  exactly  known;  but  it  is  known  that  the  varnish  caught  fire,  and  that  almost  instantly  the  whole  Theatre  was  in  a  blaze;  the  varnish  being  such  combust'.  ble  matter,  newly  laid  on  the'  walls.  The  metropolis  was  illuminated  to  the  remotest  parts  of  the  town,  and  the  intelligence  of  We  stile  of  the  calamity  seemed  to  spread  with  equal  rapidity,  as  people  from  all  parts  came  Hock Hockiag  iag Hockiag  towards  the  melancholy  scene  of  action,  as  to  a  central  , STYLE=superscript  point.  The  erotic]  near  the  fatal  spot  was  imincose,  and  all  the  streets  leading  to  it  were  thronged  with  people,  yet  perhaps  there  is  no  instance  on  record  in  which  there  appeared  less  tur turbulence  bulence turbulence  and  confusion.  As  far  as  it  was  possible  to  detach  the  mind  of  the  spectators  from  the  awful  and  tremendous  calamity  in  view,  the  appearance  of  the  metropolis  was  in  the  highest  degree  striking  and  magnificent.  The  tops  of  the  hoftes  r  all  directions  were  covered  with  people,  and  those  who  stood  upon  any  house,  from  which  a  view  of  Westminster  and  I'luckf;  iars  Bridges  could  be  seen,  could  see  every  passenger  go  over  them,  and  distinctly  mark  the  ballustrade,:.  The  Patent-shot  . STYLE=superscript  I\lanu.  factory,  and,  inriced,  every  large  edefice  on  the  South  of  . STYLE=superscript  the  Thames,  as  well  as  those  on  the  other  side,  were  illumiealv:l  with  great  splendour,  and  contributed  to  render  the  coup  d  the  grandest  spectacle  of  the  kind  that  perhaps  has  ever  ',rt.,'  itnessed  since  that  memorable  calamity,  emphatically  denonii  -  nated  the  fire  of  London.  The  reservoir  of  water  on  the  fop,which  formed  with  the  iroa  curtain  the  topic  of  reliance  for  security  in  the  Prologue  with  which  the  new  Theatre  was  opened,  was  like  a  mere  bucket bucketfull  full bucketfull  to  the  volume  of  tire  on  which  it  fell,  and  had  no  visible  effect  in  damping  it.  Any  attempt  to  go  near  the  flames  was  totally  impracticahle--and  all  that  was  ca  ved  from  ruin  was  done  by  the  presence  of  mind  and  activity  of  Mr.  Kent,  who  was  the  first  to  discover  the  flames;  .Mr.  Powell,  the  prompter  ;  and  Mr.lohnston,  the  mechanist  ;  with  the  two  waf  ehme”.  They  ascertained  that  the  fire  broke  out  in  the  hall  under  the  lobby  at  Brydges-street  entry,  w  :ere  some  plumbers  had  been  at  work.  When  the  leaden  cistern  fell  in,  it  produced  a  shock  like  vn  earthquake,  and  the  burning  matter  forced  up  into  the  air  re resembled  sembled resembled  a  shower  of  rockets  and  other  artificial  fireworks.  The  houses  in  Little  Rtssel-street,  facing  the  Theatre,  are  dread dreadfully  fully dreadfully  searei  and  whitened  ;  some  of  them  had  been  on  tire  in  the  window-frames,  and  all  the  windows  are  broken  by  the  heat.  In  Vinegar-Yard  two  or  three  small  houses  close  to  the  box boxdoor,  door, boxdoor,  are  burnt,  gutted  wills...she  fire,  but  the  walls  are  not  down.  Had  not  the  wall  in  lAttle  Itils,ell-street,  fallen  in inwards  wards inwards  on  the  Theatre.  it  must  have  crushed  the  oppo:ite  hou,;e•  That  street  is,  notwithstanditm,  filled  up  across  to  the  opposite  pavement  with  the  ruin',  chie  fly  r STYLE=superscript  of  the  fraTments  of  the  broken  colonnade,  the  stone  pillars  being  broken  lino  small  pieces,  am!  with  the'  stone-works  and  half-burnt  beams  of  timber.  The  fire  burnt  fully  up  to  Drury-lane,  to  which  a  part  of  the  build building,  ing, building,  made  intol  a  scene-painting  room,  we  believe,  had  been  lately  carried.  The  walls  in  Drury-lane'  are  standing  ;  but  in  all  quarters  the  wood-work  and  inside  of  the  Theatre  arc  completely  down.  The  baker's  shop  dosely  adjoining  the,  building  of  the  Theatre,  iii  Drurv-lane,  does  not  appear  to  have  been  in  the  least  damaged,  not  even  distneied  !it  open  and  a;  business  as  if  nothing  had  happened  !  The  next  house  down  the  lane,  in  which  was  the  stage-door,  and  the  next  house  to  that  which  was  tile  Treasury,  do  not  seem  to  have  been  injured  by  the  fire,  though  they  arc  disordered,  some  of  the  windows  out,  &amp;c.  The  building  of  this  Theatre  cost  200,0001.  Of  the  im-  MOM'  property  of  all  sorts,  in  scenery,  machinery,  dresses,  decorations,  music,  instruments,  plays,  &amp;c.  of  which  nothing  was  saved,  we  can  form  co  estimate.  The  following  we  have  authority  to  say,  k  an  exact  statement  or  the  amount  of  the  sums  insured  on  the  Theatre,  at  the  rcapec•  tive  Yire-Offices  :  The  British  Imperial  llope  Eagle  5.000  11,000  10,000  6,500  X.  14,400"
