text
"THE  ill  .  NATION  AL  n  GIST  E  R  .  Our  ling,  canttitution,  ta  ng  41-atik.  •  ~...  -  .  _  ...  .  1:Y  No  .  64.  t STYLE=superscript  .  ,  SUNDAY  ,  ..,  •  P  RIC  E  +.  .....s,......asasaass.  --  _ssaaassaassase  s  .'  I  .  ...  L  POLITICAL  DISQ  U.  NIT  10  N.  ficial  delinquents  ;  servility,  on  the  part  of  erest  public  .............................  bodies;  eeelusive  pretensions  set  up  by  power  and  those  NV  M  HER  SI  XT  Y-TW  O.  )I,skin‘r  in  its  rays  ;  indifference  to  the  private  morel  cha cha............-  ............-- cha............-  racter  ‘  of  candida  . STYLE=superscript  tes  for  ()Rice,  and  partiality  in  the  •  desi-  I  DUKE  OF  YORK'.  sions  of  justice.  This  knowledge,  pertinent,  impressive,  and  alarming  as  it  is,  we  might  have  acquired  from  a  This  is  true,  that  the  wisdom  of  these  latter  times  in  Priners  I  superficial  knowledge  of  history,  from  a  recurrence  to  late  deliveries  and  shiftings  of  dangers  and  mi.  , STYLE=superscript  -  events STYLE=superscript  in STYLE=superscript  other STYLE=superscript  countries, STYLE=superscript  from STYLE=superscript  an STYLE=superscript  attention STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  causes STYLE=superscript  effairs,  is  ratherfne  d  ,  chiefs,  when  they  arc  near,  than  solid  and  grounded  courses  to  which  led  to  recent  revolutions  on  the  contineut.  We  .1  .  keep  them  aloof:  But  this  is  but  to  try  masteries  with  fortune;  and  lel  men  beware  how  they  negl  ect STYLE=superscript  and STYLE=superscript  suffer  matter  of  trouble  c  f( STYLE=superscript  a  )l STYLE=superscript  n  io STYLE=superscript  l  ed STYLE=superscript  ‘;  t  o  be  prepared  ;  .for  no  man  can  prbid  the  spark,nor  tell  whence  if  it  may  11,40  N.  ----saiss--  ell  express,  with  a  degree  of  pe  rt STYLE=superscript  u  r STYLE=superscript  b  ation, STYLE=superscript  we STYLE=superscript  express,  the  course  of  the  procee  din STYLE=superscript  g  s, STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  know STYLE=superscript  any  such  symptoms  were  visible  in STYLE=superscript  our STYLE=superscript  own STYLE=superscript  affairs. STYLE=superscript  We STYLE=superscript  exulted  on  this  account  , STYLE=superscript  in  the  in  vesti STYLE=superscript  g  ation STYLE=superscript  ;Ise STYLE=superscript  antici STYLE=superscript  p  ated STYLE=superscript  I  '  the  pleasure  which  every  real  disinterested  friend  of  the  I  , STYLE=superscript  This  description  is  so  forcible,  just,  and  prophetic,  that  present  establishment  would  feel  at  its  conclusion.—lt  will  it  does  not  require  much  ingenuity  to  make  the  application.  silence,  we  freqnently  said,  discontent,  and  confound  ma-  •  If  any  of  our  Readers,  nevertheless,  and  some  difficulty  in  lie•nity  ;  for  we  expected  nothing  less  than  a  triumphant  I.  •  applying  it,  let  them  examine  the  conduct  and  expedients  display  of  the  practical  superiority  of  our  institutions.  of  the  present  servauts  of  the  crown—they  furnish  an  ample,  ,  have  we  been  wrong  in  attributing  common  prudence,  a  distressing,  commentary.  For  our  own  part,  we  have  integrity  and  foresight  to  men,  who  fill  the  highest  depart departbeen  been departbeen  forcibly  struck  with  its  alarming  reference  to  the  merits  in  the  state  ?  Or  have  we  expected  too  much  from  decision  of  a  certain  assembly,  to  the  temper  of  the  country,  t STYLE=superscript  the  virtue  of  Ministers,  in  supposing  that  . STYLE=superscript  the  honour,  ,  4'  t  1  11 STYLE=superscript  1  to  the  volcanic  character  of  the  present  crisis,  and  to  th  e  wisdom  of  these  Miler  ti;nes  in  princes  afairs  ;—so  grave  and  impressive  an  authority,  we  hoped,  might  tend  to  safety,  and  prosperity  of  the  country  would  be  paramount  in  their  minds  to  the  eventual  loss  of  their  offal  influence.  The  delinquency  of  the  Commander  in  Ch:ef  is  now  cut  of  ,  •  t  il  l  expose  and  correct  the  flippant,  sophistical  and  frothy  de de.  . de.  chmations,  which  had  been  employed  to  iewilder  and  the  question  ;  hut,  did  - STYLE=superscript  we  fill  a  situation  of  equal  ri`snotp.  sibility,  we  would  no!,  for  the  treasures  of  the  uai%  e  s STYLE=superscript  r  5,..,  f  einbarrass  the  public  opinion.  We  have  attended  to  the  expose  -ourselves  to  the  suspicion  which  rested  on  his  chi:-  '  itlveslinasion  of  the  Charges  against  the  Musa  OF  YORK,  ,  .  racter.  A  great  mu  jo  . STYLE=superscript  rii  yof  the  'House  of  Commons  has  seith  gseater  pain,  anxietv,  and  impatience,  than  we  CV  Cl'  ,  :1.!  acquitted  him  of  the  charge  of  perticipation  and  conniv-  Ii  .  1  did  to  any  (neer,  public  question.  We  knew  the  influence  ,e  L  .  ante  at  the  corroet  pusetenen  u. STYLE=superscript  h  i  s  oiisiress;  but  his  it.  wourd  have  on  the  fature  repose,  security  and  honour  of  conduct,  during  that  infamous  association,  betrayed  such  s  ,i,  the  c9untry.  We  were  conscions  hoe/  it  would  weaken,  or  flagrant  marks  of  weakness,  not  to  say  imbecillity,  that  it  '  invigorate,  the  attachment  of  the  people  to  the  present  '  •  would  be  torturing  the  feelings  and  good  seuse  of  the  pub pubtstai)lishmeata  tstai)lishmeata pubtstai)lishmeata  these  sentiments  were  coiranon  to  every  tic,  were  he  con  tinued  in  his  reseed.  sitnati  o STYLE=superscript  u  . STYLE=superscript  Tins  frank  t  s  honest  and  intelligent  man  in  the  community  :—And  what  ,  declaration  of  our  sentiments  may  lie  constr  , STYLE=superscript  :ed  as  &amp;sic.  i  tills  been  the  result  2  What  deference  has  -been  shewn  to  this•  spectful  to  that  Great  Personag,e;  but  we  would  ask  the  general  feelag,  this  general  conviction  ?  .We  Mush  at,  we  ,  Vorning  Post  and  the  Pilot  to  inform  us,  when  !!e  has  re-  were')  over,  the  servility,  the  indifference,  the  baseness  and  seected  himself  ?  Was  it  in  his  orgies  at  Gloucester-place  ?  ,  n  egol  ism  of  our  ar,se.  Love  (it  - STYLE=superscript  place  has  'stipplauted  love  of  -  Was  it  in  the  example  he  gave  as  a  married  man  ?  or  in  the  .  country;  Tile  fr:iwn  of  a  Minister  is  more  terrific  than  the  .  choice  and  respectability  of  his  associa4.s  ?  This  language  teinpest  which  begins  to  bellow  round  our  shores.  The  in  the  idiom  of  knaves,  maybe.termed  a  conspiracy  against  ~.  honone  of  a  is  put  la  competition  with  the  honour  •  the  throne.  No:  it  is  a  confederacy  of  virtue,  decency,  and  of  the  Empire;  and  the  feelings  of  an  individual  outweigh  honour,  against  vice,  priapism,  anti  meanness..  We  are  the  the  feelings,  and  Sortunes,  and  tranquility  of  seventeen  most  ardent  advocates  for  the  present  establishment  ;we  millions•  revere  and  love  a  monarch,  whose  private  life  is  as  CXelllm  I  1, STYLE=superscript  •  The  difficulties  of  our  situation  are  alarming  ;  they  ac-  plary  as  his  public  conduct  is  worthy  of  our  highest  venera venerai  i venerai  immolate  rapidly  ;  and  what  des  we  oppose  to  them  ?—the  non  ;  we  give  a  decided  preference  to  our  own  instizue  i  fullest  displsy  of  public  virtue  ?  no,  no  :  fine  deliveries  and  lions  over  every  other  form  of  Government,  and,  shifting's  of  daugers  and  mischiefs.  —These  ere  the  expo-  in  consequence  of  their  theoretic,  as  well  as  practical  1  .•  clients  of  modern  Statesmen;  these  their  tower  of  strength  excellency,  we  cannot  be  blamed  for  wishing'  to  preserve  when  peril  is  near.  But  ore  all  the  lessons  of  hi,story  lost  them  in  their  utmost  purity.  It  this  constitutes  conspira-  1  i  ;  n  i  non  us,  the  precepts  of  pule  51..  , STYLE=superscript  r'.  •'ll  philosophy,  the  phcuo-  cy  and  ja.cobinism,  we  have  no  hesitation  to  declare  that  mena  of  the  present  awe  We  will  open  these  venerable  we  are  the  greatest  jaeobins  and  conspirators  upon  the  face  records  •we  will  recal  these  signs—and  what  do  they  of  the  earth.  The  friends  and  advocates  of  his  Royal  •  ,  1  teach  us  ?  that  the  certain  precursors  of'  the  decline  and  Highness  are  in  conformity  to  the  same  rule,  k  i  , STYLE=superscript  lowing,  dis•  c  patriots.  Wo  hail  this  uew  aulgeace  of  kali()  i  approaching  ruin  of  a  free  state,  were  to  of  :  intereste  d,  .  ,  •4,  Fol.  II.—No•  LXIr.  -  1  io  •  •  ,  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.i  .red  ;  the  calamities  which  have  be be,wn,  ,wn, be,wn,  are  a  terrifying  example  to  the  which  has  been  restored  in  Saragossa  ole  of  Arragon  ;  and  the  two  armies,  the  town,  have  been  set  at  liberty.  Sa Sa...entre  ...entre Sa...entre  of  the  insurrection  of  Stolle;  it  was  at  the  party  was  former;,  which  wished  to  of  .  the  youse  et  Austria  to  reign  on STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  indtvvinats  of  this  parly  had  partly  inherited  which  were  irrevocably  derived  from  their  _!ring  the  war  of  the  Succession.  attic  of  Tudela  was  won  on  the  :23ti  of  November,  the  2i  th  the  French  army  were  encamped  at  a  staoce  from  Saragossa.  The  people  of  this  town  fred.  The  peasants  of  Arragon  had  repaired  thi thiand  and thiand  Saragossa  contained  50,000  men,  formed  into  eehts  of  1000  men,  and  companies  of  100.  The  Ge Geal  al Geal  Officers  anti  Subalterns  consisted  of  Monks.  A  body  10,0:'W  men,  who  had  escaped  from  Tudela,  had  thrown  .iemselves  into  the  town,  which  was  furnished  with  provi provimoils,  moils, provimoils,  heaped  up  in  innumerable  magazines,  and  defended  by  200  pieces  of  cannon.  The  image  of  our  Lady  of  Pilar  rotilil  miracles  at  the  will  of  the  Monks,  who  by  such  means  animated  the  zeal,  and  preserved  the  confidence  of  the  multitude,  In  the  field,  these  50,000  men  would  not  have  withstood  three  regiments;  but  shut.  up  in  their  town  and  wrought  upon  by  the STYLE=superscript  leaders STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  parties,  how  could  they  escape  the  miseries  which  iguorauce  and  fanaticism  heap  upon  the  heads  of  so  many  wretches  ?  Every  thing  •  possible  was  done  to  enlighten  them  and  bring  them  to  reason.  Immediately  after  the  battle  of  Tudela,  the  belief  entertained  at  Saragossa  tha  Madrid  held  out  that  they  m  i  g  ht  be  reheved  ;  and  that  the  armies  at  SOITIO  Sierra,  Guadarama,  Estremadura,  Leon,  and  Cataltmia,  might  fur furnish  nish furnish  a  pretext  for  the  Chiefs  of  the  Insurgents  to  keep  alive  the  fauaticism  of  the  inhabitants;  it  was  resolved  not  to  .zarrender  the  town,  but  to  maintain  a  commu communcatioa  ncatioa communcatioa  with  all  Spain,  in  order  that  they  might  be  informed  of  the  annihilation  of  the  Spanish  arMies,  and  of  the  circumstances  whieh  attended  the  entrance  of  the  French  army  into  Madrid  !  but  all  this  intelligence  came  to  the  efirs  of  the  ringleaders  alone,  and  wasunkuown  by  the  body  of  the  peaplc.  The  truth  was  not  only  rou route  te route  tied  from  them,  hut  their  courage  was  kept  up  by  lies  :  at  one  time,  the  French  had  lost  40,000  men  before  Ma Madrid  drid Madrid  ;  at  another  time  Romana  had  entered  Francee  terr,  anti  ible  the  F  ren  ch  eagles  were  compelled  to  11y  before  th  leopard.  This  period,  sacrificed  to  political  objects,  in  or order  der order  to  allow  a  m  ultitude  to  come  to  reason  who  were  infa infatuated,  tuated, infatuated,  by  fanaticism,  and  a  terror  inspired  by  their  enraged  leaders,  was  not  lost  to  the  French  Army,  The  General  of  thiginu.rs,  Lacoste,  Aide-de-camp  to  the  Emperor,  and  an  Meer  of  the  greatest  merit,  collected  at  Alan  the  mate materials  rials materials  and  instrunien!s  for  mining,  in  order  to  go STYLE=superscript  carry  on  the  sublerraneous  war,  which  the  Emperor  had  commanded.  The  General  of  Division,  Dredon,  who  com STYLE=superscript  bombmandes,d  andartillery,  the  ar  tillery,  collected  a  quantity  Of  mortars,  howitzers  of  crery  calibre.  All  these  were  broug  ht STYLE=superscript  from STYLE=superscript  Pampelnna,  seven  days  march  from STYLE=superscript  enemy  i  himself  of  delay  in  order  to  fortify  'Monte  Dc  cc  theorrero,  and  o  th  e  r  strong]  positions.  On  the  25th  of  division  of  Socket  drove  him  from  the  heights  of  St.  Lam Lambert,  bert, Lambert,  anti  from  two  ont-works  which  were  within  reach  of  the  town.  The  division  of  General  Gazan  drove  the  enemy  from  th.-  heights  of  St.  Gregorio,  and  with  the  21st  regi regiment  ment regiment  of  the  line,  took  Ilya  redoubts  which  were  thrown  up  in  the  suburbs,  and  defended  the  road:;  of  Sueva  and  Bar Barceona.  ceona. Barceona.  Ile  also  made  himself  masterlabaratory  near  Calliego,  in  which  500  SN%  iss  had  entrenched  themselves.  On  the  same  day,  the  Duke  of  Cornegliano  made  himself  invster  of  the  works  and  position  ot  Monte  Torrero  coners,  ;  he  took  ail  the  cannon,  made  a  great  number  of  vi  Th  e  Duke  of  Correg Corregand  and Corregand  did  great  inju  ry STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  elicany. STYLE=superscript  katto,  being  sick,  the  'Julie  of  Abrantes  came  at  the  be-  179  •  •  •  -  -  --  ---  -  •  ginning  Of  January,  and  took  command  of  the STYLE=superscript  third STYLE=superscript  d STYLE=superscript  .1- STYLE=superscript  s'-on.  lie  signalized  his  arrival  by  taking  the  monastery  of  St.  Joseph,  and  pursued  hia  aaYantages  on  the  16th  of  January,  by  taking  the  bridge  of  let  tlueba,  where  his  troops  fixed  . STYLE=superscript  themselves.  The  Chief  of  Battalion  Stahl,  of  the  14th  ieginterit  of  the  line,  distinguished  himself  in  the  attack  on  the  monastery  of  St.  Joseph,  and  the  Lieutenant  Victor  D.  Butfoa  was  the  first  in  the  assault.  Tne  circuit.  vallatien  of  Saragossa  was  nut  yet  resolved  upon;  that  was  considered  as  iuexpedient  ;  and  a  free  communication  was  still  left  open,  in  order  that  the  Insurgents  might  be  in.  formed  of  the  defeat  of  the  English,  and  their  infamous  flights  out  of  ;'pain.  It  s%  as  on  the  16th  of  January  that  the  English  were  driven  into  the  sea  at  Corunna,  and  it  was  on  the  26th  that  the  eperations  before  Saragossa  were  seriously  begun.  The  Deb.!  of  Montebello  arrived  there  on  the  20th,  in  order  to  assume  the  command  of  the  siege.  As  soon  as  he  was  asserel  that  the  intelligence  which  was  brought  into  the  town  had  no  etrect,  and  that  few  monks  governed  the  minds  of  the  people,  he  resolved  to  put  an  end  to  these  indulgences  :  50,000  peasants  were  collected  on  the  kit  banks  of  the  Ebro  :  at  Pardignera  the  Duke  of  Treviso  attacked  them  with  three  regiments  ;  and  not notwithstanding  withstanding notwithstanding  the  tine  position  they  possessed,  the  64th  regi regiment  ment regiment  routed  them,  and  threw  them  into  disorder.  The  iOth  regiment  of  hussars  was  on  the  plain  to  receive  them,  and  a  great  number  remained  in  the  field  of  battle.  Nine  pieces  of  -cannon  and  seseral  standards  were  the  trophies  of  this  victory,  At  the  same  time  the  Duke  of  Montebello  had  sent  the  Adjutant  Commandant  Gusquet  to  Zuera.  in  order  to  disperse  an  assemblage  of  insurgents;  this  officer  attacked  4000  of  them  with  three  battilions,  overthrew  them,  and  took  four  pieces  of  cannon,  with  their  carriages  and  horses.  General  Fattier  was  at  the  same  time  sent  with  three  hundred  infantry  , STYLE=superscript  and  '2OO  cavalry,  towards  Valencia.  He  met  5000  insurgents  at  Alcanitz,  compelled  them,  even  in  the  town,  to  throw  down  their  arms  in  their  flight;  he  killed  six  hundred  men.  and  seized  magazines,  provisions,  and  arms  ;  among  the  last  were  100  English  muskets.  The  Adjutant-Commandant,  Carrion  Nizos,  conducted  himself  (gloriously  at  the  head  of  a  column  of  infantry.  Colonel  Ilnalie,  of  the  4th  regiment  of  Hussars,  and  the  Chief  of  Battalion,  Cantos,  of  the  28th  regiment  of  I,;ght  Infautry,  distiie,!eiisbed  themselves.  These  operations  took  place  between  the  20th  and  261.11  of  January,  On  the  26th  tee  town  was  seriously  attacked,  and  the  batteries  were  nine  asked,  and  at  noon  on  the  27111  the  breach  was  practicable  in  several  places  ;  the  troops  were  lodged  in  the  monastery  of  San-in  Gracia.  The  division  of  Grand.  jean  entered  sumo  80  houses.  The  Col.  Caloiseki  and  the  soldiers  of  the  'Weisel,  distinguiShed  themselves.  At  the  same  morneutGencral  at  Division  Morlat,  in  an  attack  upon  the  left  wing  - STYLE=superscript  made  himself  master  of  the  whole  fore foreground  ground foreground  of  the  enemy's  defence.  Capt.  Guettemar,  at  the  head  of  the  pioneersoind  thirty-six  grenadiers  of  theforty.  fourth  regiment  Nrith  a  rare  intrepidity,  ascended  the  breach,  M.  Bahiesl,i,  an  officer  of  the  Voltigents  of  the  Weixel,  a  young  man  seventeen  years  of  age,  and  covered  with  seven  wouedr,  was  th.  , STYLE=superscript  ..,  first  who  appeared  upon  the  breach,  The  Chief  of  Battalion,  Leitine,  Aid-de-Camp  to  the  Prince  of  Neufchatel,  distingnished  himself,  and  received  two  slight  wounds.  The  thief  of  attalion  Haxo,  is  alo  slig  htly  wounded,  and  likewise  ß STYLE=superscript  distinguished  himse  s STYLE=superscript  lf.  On  the  30th,  the  monasteries  of  the  Monique  and  the  Greek  Augustiaes  were  occupied.  Sixty  houses  were  pose  sessed  by  linden:tieing.  The  miners  of  the  14th  regiment  distinguished  themselves.  On  - STYLE=superscript  the  Ist  of  February,  General  Lacoste  received  a  ball.  and  died  in  the  field  of  honour,.  He  was  a  brave  and  distinguished  officer.  ale  has  bees  lamented  by  the  whole  army,  but  more  especially  by  the  Emperor.  Colonel  llegeiat  spcceeded  him  in  the  cowman:l  of  the  engineers,  and  in  th#  qtanagement  of  the  siege.  The  enemy  defended  ever  •  -  tbrec  attacks  were  ~  made  by  mines,  and  ettetylseute  were  blows  94  lit  is  t  i  up,  and  afforded  the  ',.,'  I  ,fitiAstttlii4y  of  stationing  -  .:::  .-  •  .  .  _  -;  ;r  ~:  1  I  P3_TB00009 19.  Saragossa  has  surreudc  fallen  this  unhappy  tol  people.  The  peace  w  cx;ends  to  the  whole  which  were  around  the  ragossa  was  the  emir(  in  this  t3wn  that  the  call  in  a  Prince  of  Oil  The  intlividu  these  notio:ls,  which  ancestors  during  the  &#34;'Vile  bait  to  of  Tut  and  alter  the  ',nth  ft  satall  di:;tatiee  from  were  ;trilled.  The  p  they  ;  and  Saragossa  reginleu!s  of  MO  ni  ueral  Otticert;  and  Si  of  10,0:'W  men,  ii,  ho  Vinmselves  into  the  t  sions,  heaped  up  in  i  P3_TB00010 •  LE  NATIONAL  REGISTER'  '  179  i  which  have  be-  ginning  ef  January,  and  took  com  ma  Iti-------------d  of  the  third  d  .0.  ..  ..  .•  .  ,  i  example  to  the  1s  -on.  lie  signalized  his  arrival  by  taking  the  monasatry  l'l,  red  in  Saragossa  i  of  St.  Joseph,  and  pursued  h  is STYLE=superscript  advan  ta STYLE=superscript  g  es STYLE=superscript  on STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  16th STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  4'  I  '  the  two  armies,  January,  by  taking  the  bridge  of  La  ilueba,  where  his  tat  liberty.  Sa-  ;  troops  heed'  themselves.  The  Chief  of  Battalion  Stahl,  of  k  .  of  .paid;  it  was  1  the  14th  ieginteet  of  the  line,  distinguished  himself  in  the  which  wished  to  lattack  on  the  monastery  Of  St.  Joseph,  and  the  Lieutenant  to  reign  on  the  Victor  D.  klutfon  was  the  first  in  the  assault.  Tne  circuit.  t,  I  p  ar  tly  inherited  1  vallatien  of  Sarq.  , STYLE=superscript  ,ossa  was  not  yet  resolved  upon  ;  that  was  I  considered  as  i  'II  rued  from  their  ioexpedient  ;  and  a  free  communication  was  .  ;  ,  ,  ;  ~  I  sail  left  open,  in  order  that  the  Insurgents  might  be  in.  ;  :23d  of  November,  formed  of  the  defeat  of  the  Enelish,  and  their  infamous  0  •  I  Rights  of  '  •  re  encatnped  at  a  out  spell'.  It  s%  as  on  the  16th  of  January  that  o  pi  e  o  f  t  h  is  t  ow  ni  the  English  were  driven  into  the  sea  at  Corunna,  and  it  was  had  repaired  thi-  on  the  26th  that  the  eperationi  before  Saragossa  were  •  nen,  flamed  into  seriously,.  begun.  The  Dale  of  Montebe  llo STYLE=superscript  arrived STYLE=superscript  there STYLE=superscript  ,a  ,  of  100.  The  Ge-  on  the  euth,  in  order  w  to  assume  the  command  of STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  sie STYLE=superscript  g  e- STYLE=superscript  6  •  M  o  nks.  A  body  l  As  soon  as  he  was  as•i;lred  that  the  intelligence  which  was  udela,  had  thrown  I  brought  into  the  town  had  no  etrect,  and  that  few  Monks  nished  with  provi-  governed  the  minds  of  the  people,  he  resolved  to  put  an  ii  nes,  and  defended  end  to  these  indulgences  ;  50,000  reasants  were  collected  •  3  e  our  Lady  of  Pilar  On  the  kit  banks  of  the  Ebro  :  at  Pardigucra  the  Duke  iks,  who  by  such  1  of  Treviso  attacked  them  with  three  regiments  ;  and  nut-  I  the  confidence  of  withstanding  the  tine  position  they  possessed,  the  64th  regi-  m  ent  ld  routed  them,  and  threw  the STYLE=superscript  m  into STYLE=superscript  disorder. STYLE=superscript  The STYLE=superscript  ut  m  e  n  would  not  meut  routed  them,  and  threw  theni  into  disorder.  The  ut  up  in  their  town  not  10th  regiment  of  hussars  was  on  the  plain  to  receive  them,  .1  i  .  parties,  how  could  and  a  great  number  remained  in  the  field  of  battle.  Nine  ~  .1  pieces  of  -canuon  and  several  standards  were  the  trophies  of  lice  and  fanaticism  1  1.  c  h  es  ?  Eve  t  hi  ng  this  victory,  At  the  same  time  the  Duke  of  :Montebello  and  bring  them  to  had  sent  the  Adjutant  Commandant  Gusquet  to  Zuera.  in  I'  Tudela,  the  belief  order  to  disperse  an  assemblage  of  insurgents;  this  officer  me  ld  out  t  h  a  t  t  h  ey  attacked  4000  of  them  with  three  battalions,  overthrew  es  at  So  Sierra,  them,  and  took  four  pieces  of  cannon,  with  lheircarriages  italtmia,  might  fur-  and  horses.  General  V  attier  was  at  the  same  time  sent  h,  Insurgents  to  keep  with  three  hundred  infantry,  and  '2OO  cavalry,  towards  t  a  i  it  was  resolved  Valencia.  He  met  $OOO  insurgents  at  Alcanitz,  compelled  laintain  a  coma  them,  even  in  the  town,  to  throw  down  their  arms  in  their  ~  1'  tat  they  might  be  flight;  he  killed  six  hundred  men,  and  seized  magazines,  L'  i'  ;,apish  arciies,  an  d  provisions,  and  arms,  among  the  last  were  100  English  .!  0  A  the  entrance  of  muskets.  The  Adjutant-Commandant,  Carrion  N  izos,  ;  a  ll  t  hi  s  i  nte  lli  gence  conducted  himself  gloriously  at  he  hea  of  a  clumn  of  le,  and  wasunk  uo  wn  1  infantry.  Color.el  Burthe,  attic  t STYLE=superscript  4th  regiment  of  o STYLE=superscript  Hussars,  I  and  the  Chief  of  Battalion,  Calltni,  of  the  '2Bth  regiment  of  th  was  not  only  con-  was  kept  up  by  lies  :  i  L'ght  Infantry',  distiniished  I  LierliSCIVM  These  operationS  ,•  000  men  before  Ma-  k  took  place  betwecll  the  '2oth  and  2Gth  of  January,  On  the  .  1  , STYLE=superscript  tered  France,  and  the  26th  tee  town  was  seriously  attacked,  and  the  batteries  v  before  the  terrible  were  nine  asked,  and  at  noon  on  the  27th  the  breach  vas  :  e  ;iitical  objects,  in  or-  .  practicable  in  several  places  ;  the  troops  were  lodged  in  eason  who  were  info  the  monastery  of  San-in  Gracia.  The  division  of  Grand.  enraged  jean  entered  some  80  houses.  The  Col.  Caloiseki  and  the  aired  by  their  my,  The  General  of  soldiers  of  the  NVeiNel,  distinguiShed  themselves.  At  the  the  Emperor,  and  an  same  morneutGencral  of  Division  Morlat,  in  an  attach  lat  Alaeon  the  mate-  upon  the  left  wing  made  himself  master  of  the  whole  flee-  -  :,  round  of  the  eeemy's  defence.  Capt.  Guettemar,  at  the  •  .  .  order  to  carry  on  the  g  ror  had  commanded.  head  of  the  pioneers,and  thirty-six  grenadiers  of  theforty.  .-  fourth  reg,inient  with  a  rare  intrepidity,  ascended  the  breach STYLE=superscript  .  who  commanded  the  M.  BabiesVe  an  officer  of  the  Voltigents  of  the  Weixel,  a  ..  mortars,  bombs,  and  young  man  seventeen  years  of  age,  and  c  overed STYLE=superscript  with  seven  :  rn  i  se  were  brought  from  svouedr,  was  tie  , STYLE=superscript  ..,  first  who  appeared  upon  t  he STYLE=superscript  breach. STYLE=superscript  The STYLE=superscript  1,  n  Saragossa.  In  the  Chief  Chief  of  Battalion,  Lejune,  Aid-de-Camp  to  the  Prince  of  to,  is  enemy  had  availed  Neufchatel.  distingnished  himself,  and  received  two  'Monte  Torrero,  and  e  sth  of  December  the  ,  slight,  The  thief  of  Battalion  Haxo,  is  also  )  1  he  heights  of  St.  Lam-  '  sl4':htly  womocii,  and  likewise  distinguished  himself.  a  .  .  On  the  SOth,  the  monasteries  of STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  Moni STYLE=superscript  q  ue STYLE=superscript  and STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  h  were  within  reach  ef  Greek  Augustines  were  occupied.  Sixty_  houses  mere  pose  Gazan  drove  the  enemy  sessed  by  undermining.  The  miners  of  the  14th  regiment  tad  with  the  21st  regi-  distinguished  .themselves.  Oethe  Ist  of  February,  Genera  which  were  thrown  up  ia  &amp;  o  f  Sueva  an  d  Bar-  Lacoste  received  a  ball,  and  died  in  the  field  of  honour,.  ee  I  He  was  a  brave  and  distinguished  officer.  He  has  bees  ter  ef  a  laboratory  near  en  t  r  enched  themselves•  lamented  by  the  whole  a  rm STYLE=superscript  y  , STYLE=superscript  but  more  especially  by  the  Emperor.  Colonel  llegeiat  spcceeded  him  in  the  cowman:l  rnegliano  made  himself  i  of  the  engineers,  and  in  thp  management  of  the  siege.  of  Monte  Torrero  ;  he  The  enemy  defended  aver  •  .i  three  attacks  were  ,  number  of  prisoners,  i  l  made  by  mines,  and  ,  eitety  .  ...:  ,  .:  1  1soj!ses  were  blows  The  Duke  of  Correg-  and  afforded  thy  tfo9V,  :  jAiWittlitiM  of  stationing  . STYLE=superscript  Kantes  came  at  the  be-  l  i  uP.  •  •.7.':i'd•  .1.1-  ~•  -.  '  .  ...  •  .  '  .----  ...  ...  -  --  -  _  ~.  TILE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  186  %%orld  thvy  felt,  and  were  reialy  to  condemn  conduct  so  palpably  Irroct.  Air.  Secretary  Cot  !V  NING  141  , STYLE=superscript  4  ready  to  admit  that  were  there  zany  man  in  that  House  ho  might  be  more  particularly  pointed  eat  as  free  from  every  kind  of  undue  influence—  •if  there  were  thoe  to  whom  the  country  would,  on  the  present  occasion,  above  ;.11  others,  look  to  for  an  opinion  given  on  ground,  destitute  of  teiord  to  party  or  management,  he  had  believed  it  was  the  Hon.  tieatleman.  He  had  always  been  confident  that  lion.  Gentle  wan  would  not  compromise  his  feelings  of  justice  on  the  import important  ant important  question,  nor  begin  now  to  act  the  part  of  a  parliamentary  tactician.  Such  was  the  expectation  he  had  entertkined  of  the  conduct  of  the  Honourable  Gentleman,  and  he  must  confess  that  lie  saw  with  surprise  the  course  which  he  had  taken.  The  _Honourable  Gentleman  was  persuaded  that  the  House  ought  to  come  to  a  decision  which  would  have  the  effect  of  displacing  the  Duke  of  York  from  his  0  ice  of  Commander  in  Chief;  but  aft'  :•  allow  ing  all  the  weight  which  was  due  to  the  aro  i'  onients;  on  which  he  founded  that  opinion,  still  it  was  very  doubtful  whether  the  'Louse  t  cold  be  warranted,  to  come  to  such  a  vote.  Was  it  candid  treatment  to  the  Illustrious  Personage  whose  ease  was  'older  con consideration  sideration consideration  to  act  thus  ?  Was  such  a  proceeding  respectful  to  the  first  Personage  in  the  Kingdom,  to  whom  the  Address  was  pro proposed  posed proposed  to  be  presented?  Was  it  consistent  with  Farliamentary  practice,  that  a  vote  so  undecided  as  the  Amendment  of  the  lion.  Geutleman  (Mr.  Bankes)  should  be  preferred  to  one,  which  stated  a  'dear  and  specific  opinion  upon  the  principal  point  of  the  charg  e?  The  Han.  Gentleman  had  said  there  was  no  re record,  cord, record,  n  othing  excepting  the  Journals  of  the  House.  Was  not  slink  record  sufficient?  and,  if  substantiated,  was  it  not  enough  to  blast  the  fame  of  his  Royal  Highness  in  the  eyes  of  posterity  i  Such  then  was  the  effect  of  that  .Amendment  supported  by  the  non.  Gentleman  (  Mr.  Wilberforce)  though  he  was  ready  to  admit  the  charge  of  personal  corruption  and  connivance  had  not  been  proved  (A  cry  of  No!  Aro  !)  The  Right  Honourable  Secretary  then  proceeded  to  remark  upon  the  strong  points  of  the  evi evideuce,  deuce, evideuce,  and  concluded  by  saying,  he  should  give  his  vote  for  the  amendment  as  proposed  by  his  Right  Hon.  Friend  (the  Chan Chancellor  cellor Chancellor  of  the  Excheque...)  Mr.  G.  Po  x  sox  nv  spoke  shortly  against  the  Resolutions  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer.  He  was  convinced  the  I)uke  of  York  ought,  from  the  evidence  given  before  the  House,  to  be  removed  from  his  present  situation.  The  Question  was  then  loudly  called  for  from  every  part  of  the  House,  and  strangers  were  ordered  to  withdraw.—A  divi division  sion division  then  took  place  on  Mr.  Bankes's  amendment,  Ayes  199  I  .Toes  :294  I  Thijorityagaitpit  the  Amendment  95.  A  second  division  next  entued  on  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exche Exchequer's  quer's Exchequer's  first  Resolution,  moved  as  an  Amendment  uu  Col.  War War-41e's  41e's War-41e's  Address  :  Noes  123  I  Ayes  364  I  Majority  in  favour  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer's  Amendment  X24l.—Adjourned.  Thursday,  March  16.  No  L•usinc:s  of  importance.  Frin'try„March  17.  DUKE  OF  YORK.  SPEA  Ern.  stated  the  question  for  the  consideration  of  the  !louse  to  be  as  follows  humble  Address  having  been  pro proposed,  posed, proposed,  and  a  division  having  taken  place  on  the  expediency,of  proceeding  by  Address,  the  house  came  to  the  determination  of  proceeding  by  a  resolution,  to  the  following  effect  That  Charges  having  been  brought  forward  against  his  Royal  High Highsee.:  see.: Highsee.:  the  Commander  in  Chief,  accusing  him  of  criminal  corrnp corrnpsion  sion corrnpsion  and  connivance  at  certain  abuses  in  army  promotion=,  ap appointments,  pointments, appointments,  &amp;c.  the  house  feels  it  incumbent  to  give  a  distinct  .:nd  pointed  opinion  of  the  truth  or  falsehood  of  those  charges,  e.  ;  on  the  propriety  of  this  resolution,  therefore  this  debate  as  now  to  be  Mr.  PERCCVA  r.  said,  if  the.  Gentlemen  on  the  other  side  of  the  house  bad  no  objection,  he  shouhi  wish  to  withdraw  this  Itesolution  for  the  purpose  of  substituting  another  in  its  room.  As  the  house  had  come  to  the  determination  of  pro proceeding  ceeding proceeding  by  resolution  instead  of  address,  and  as  he  had  no  wish  to►  rescind  that  detcrm+n  a  'io►n,  but  merely  to  substitute  another  resolution,  ►cith  a  little  alteration,  in  its  room,  he  thought  the  purpose  might  be  aitaint.d  without  putting  the  question  to  a  vote.  this  resolution  he  wi-hed  to  add  the  general  opinion  and  settle  tif  :he  house.  ale  had  no  wish,  however,  to  force  its  being  liicawit.  if  the  house  had  any  objection,  lint  he  could  see  u  IUit!OU  why  an  opposition  should  he  gi  vest  to  such  a  step.  MARCH  1  9  Mr.  TIERNEY  said  that  he  had  the  strongest  objection  to  the  Resolution  as  it  Was  w  orded,  imesranch  as  it  would  appear  on  the  Journals  of  the  house,  from  such  a  deter determination,  mination, determination,  that  there  was  in  fact  nothing.  proved  against  his  Royal  2  iglii:ess,  either  on  the  ground  of  criminal  corruption  or  como‘ance,  or  in  any  other  way,  which  shut  out  the.  pi.E:sibi pi.E:sibility  lity pi.E:sibility  of  giving  an  opinion  on  the  other  part  of  his  caadnet,  certainly  deserving  of  the  strongest  animadversion.  In  his  pri private  vate private  character  the  people  had  no  interest,  but  in  his  public  cha character  racter character  their  interest  was  very  materially  concerned  :  it  was  pro probable  bable probable  he  might  one  day  or  other  come  to  the  throne,  and  is  the  charges  exhibited  against  him  of  corruption  were  proved,  a  Will  of  Exclusion  must  necessarily  follow.  if  the  records  on  the  Journals  of  the  house  stated  the  conduct  of  the  Commander  in  Chief  to  he  vicious,  it  would  be  degrading  not  to  follow  that  statement  by  a  representation  that  he  was  unfit  any  longer  to  hold  the  situation  at  the  head  of  military  affairs.  But  he  would  them  come  orfore  the  house  as  a  public  Functionary,  and  if  Royal  Personages  were  to  take  the  situations  of  Public  tionaries,  they  must  of  course,  as  much  as  any  other  person;  and  if  the  house  neglected  to  express  their  condemnation  of  the  im improprieties  proprieties improprieties  which  had  been  proved,  the  whole  country  would  stand  up  in  indignation.  The  Duke  of  York  as  a  man  is  entitled  by  rank  to  every  respect  ;  he  is  a  man  in  private  life  who  is  both  kind  and  beneficient,  but  it  becomes  Members  of  Parliament,  as  a  duty  which  they  owe  to  their  constituents,  however  painful  the  execution  oft  hat  duty  may  he,  to  take  care  that  public  offices  are  not  filled  by  persons  to  whose  character  the  most  trifling  suspicion  is  attached.  Unless  we  express,  as  our  duty  requires,  a  distinct  opinion  of  the  abuses  which  have  been  proved,  we  shall  be  ashamed  to  look  the  public  in  the  face.  WVt  respect  to  the  Letter  from  the  Duke  of  York  to  the  house,  it  appeared  to  him  to  be  the  production,  not  of  his  Royal  Highness  himself,  but  of  the  Cabinet  Ministers.  The  rig!.t  hon.  Gentleman  on  the  other  side  of  the  house  had  accused  the  hon.  Gentleman,  who  brought  forward  the  charges  now  pend pending,  ing, pending,  of  baying  consulted  wiser  and  cooler  heads  than  his  own.  It  might  be  fairly  said,  however,  that  the  Duke  of  York  cons  suited  weaker  heads  than  his  own,  for  he  would  never  have  been  so  base  and  so  mean  as  to  write  such  a  letter,  which  was  evidently  intended  to  form  a  ground  for  the  present  proceed proceeding,  ing, proceeding,  He,  (Mr.  Tierney)  was  ready  to  say,  on  oath,  that  according  to  his  opinion  the  Duke  of  Y  ork  was  nut  guilty  of  corrupt  practices  ;  but  there  were  many  other  Gentle,  men  who  might  be  or  fliliereot  opinions,  and  who  would  be  obliged  to  declare  by  this  vote  what  those  opinions  were.  It  was  to  he  regretted  the  Duke  had  not  resigned,  in  the  first  instance,  which  he  might  have  done  without  any  possible  impu imputation  tation imputation  against  his  character,  and  by  such  condttet  he  would  have  saved  a  great  deal  of  that  unpleasant  feeling  which  pervaded  the  house  on  the  present  occasion.  But,  as  this  case  now  stood,  the  best  method  to  adopt  would  be  to  give  a  general  Virlir  of  the  case;  and  unless  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  thought  proper  to  come  to  this  determination,  he  should  not  be  allowed  to  withdraw  his  resolution.  Mr.  MA  un  tun  Frry.Grt  Ln  begged  for  one  moment  the  at attention  tention attention  of  the  House,  and  reminded  them  ho  w•  very  liable  to  misrepresentations  different  Gentlemen  must  unavoidably  be,  if  they  were  prevented  from  being  sufficiently  audible.  lie  had  felt  it  his  duty  to  vote  for  both  the  Addresses  ;  but  in  doing  so,  he  declared  that  no  Honourable  Member  who  had  voted  on  either  of  the  Majorities  against  those.  Addresses  could  possibly  have  f'ett  greater  pain  than  he  would  at  the  disgrace  or  deg  radation  of  any  branch  of  the  illustrious  family  to  which  the  !loyal  Duke  belonged.  Ile  objected  to  the  Resolution  of  the  Right  Honour,  able  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  because  it  was  professed professedly  ly professedly  to  end  in  an  Address,  supposing  he  had  no  objection  to  the  matter  contained  in  that  Resolution.  Ile  had  voted  for  the  Ad.  dresses,  because  he  approved  of  the  'ratter,  though  he  thought  an  Address  was  not  the  mast  desirable  mode  of  proceeding,  and  that  for  two  reasons  ;  one,  that  he  did  not  think  that  House  was  to  call  in  the  aid  of  the  Crown  to  do  that  which  they  were  suffi sufficient  cient sufficient  to  do  themselves  ;  and  another  was,  that  an  Address  on  such  a  subject  did  not  appear  to  him  to  be  the  best  mode  of  con  . STYLE=superscript  .  slitting  the  feelings  of  a  Sovereign  and  a  Father;  yet  even  with,  those  disadvantages  he  was  compelled  to  vote  for  the  Addresses  in  preference  to  the  Resolutions  of  the  Right  Ilononrable  Gen-  .  demon.  As  to  all  thnt  had  been  said  with  respect  to  out-door  influence,  he  was  far  from  being  disposed  ever  to  let  any  popular  cry  have  any  undue  influence  on  his  vote  in  that  house;  hut  at  the  same  time  he  thought  it  to  he  the  duty  of  the  Representa.  fives  of  the  People,  not  to  be  inditfereat  or  insensible  to  the  pub  lie  opinion.  P10_TB00017 N  ISO  THE  NATION  bands  or  fathers  !—imploring  fleaven  in  vain  !  Their  shrieks,  their  anguish,  are  useless  appeals  to  their  fero ferocious  cious ferocious  pursuers.  '1  hey  are  torn  from  the  arms  of  their  dis distracted  tracted distracted  mothers,  and  forced  to  endure  what  lust  has  ino:it  horrid,  fury  most  unbridied,—perhaps  in  the  presence  of  tkir  pinioned  husbands  or  fathers.  Eternal  execrations  light  oa  the  head  of  the  callous  ruf ruffian,  fian, ruffian,  who  has  produced,  by  his  mad  ambition,  this  dreadfu!  scene  of  woe  and  misery  ;—who  has  filled  with  mourning.,  diStraeion,  and  want,  so  many  respetable  have  In.st  all,  their  relatives,  their  country  and  fortune,  one  day  ;  and,  what  is  wore  d;siracting,  are  now  compelled  to  do  homage  to  the  very  famil  —thecause  of  all  their  losses!  NArot.F.ox  M.  1;  rAI  !  th'zcietis  and  just  God  !  how  are  the  feefias  and  principles  of  [lie  present  age  reversed  ;  when  a  !monster.  who  unites.  in  the  highest  dep-ee  the  worst  qualities  of  a  eagliqsiro,  a  iiarring:dtt,  and  a  „,Chinderhannes,  cou:d  find  wrote!'  :-!:;  so  hrulatized  as  to  rank  him  among  the  heroes  and  the  patricts,  who  have  honoured  and  enlitth'-  eaed  mankind  !  Ye  m..rderers,  pickpockets,  and  poisoners!  beak  n  &amp;o  die  temple  of  lame  !—tear  from  !heir  s  the  farmer  statues  !—besmear  and  mutikte  them  ;  aro'  boldly  place  yourselves  and  NAPOLEON  BONAPARTE  those.  (lIICe  occupied  by  TRAJAN,  EPAMINONDAS,  CATO,  1.11(  yonr.l4  4 STYLE=superscript  Cr  BrAyrus,  Sir  TROMAS  MOORE,  and  PALAPoX  !  Centm  ries  shall  revolve,  and  revolutions  change  the  form  and  order  of  our  globe  ;•  and  the  name  of  PALAFOX  wi!'  acquire  new  s?lendiuir  through  every  successive  hoc  of  a  , STYLE=superscript  , STYLE=superscript  es.  The  name  of  that  hero  will  cease  to  be  associate:  r•  with  the  love  and  veneration  of  mankind,  when  public  and  private  virtue  shall  have  abandoned  our  globe  for  eve...  There  is  still  a  country  left,  which  can  openly  revere  his  virtues  and  proclaim  his  worth.  Where  the  bayonets  of  his  persecutor  cannot  awe  its  population  into  silence.  Where  )'ALAFOX,  should  ►leaven  have  reserved  him  for  future  eceds  of  heroism,  will  find  another  native  country,  proud  to  class  him  among  the  most  distinguished  of  her  pa pa&amp;riots  &amp;riots pa&amp;riots  and  statesmen.  _  _  _  This  is  the  triumph  of  moral  justice  over  secial  arrange arrangements;  ments; arrangements;  fe.(l  ieconciles  us  to  the  imperfections  and  disorders  which  appear  in  the  dispensations  of  fortune.—The  virtu virtuous  ous virtuous  man,  the  ardent  patriot,  can  never  be  unhappv.—ln  n  dungeon,  or  on  a  throne  ;  in  the  circle  of  his  family  and  friends,  or  on  the  sc;itild;  he  is  still  the  same;  and  the  conviction  of  his  worth  preserves  the  serenity  of  his  mind  unimpaired  amidst  the  horrors  of  the  situation.  PALA  FON  is  no  object  of  our  pity  ;—whatever  be  his  fate,--a  fugi fugitive  tive fugitive  or  a  prisoner,—we  think  him  the  most  enviable  man  on  the  fare  of  our  globe.  If  he  feels  any  anxiety  ;  it  is  for  his  country  !  but  when  he  looks  to  himself,  he  must  find  there  motives  of  satisfaction  more  cheering  than  all  the  intoxication  of  a  Roman  triumph.  But  the  career  of  his  virtues  and  exploits,  we  shudder  to  think,  is  already  completed.  Ths  fate  of  the  hero  has  boon  denounced  in  the  last  Bulletin,  PA  LA  FOi  is  dan dangcrously  gcrously dangcrously  Cold,  relentless  murderer!  Yon  have  taken  assay  a  life,  which  outweighed  in  moral  worth,  in  real  nobility  of  soul,  your  own  and  that  of  the  present  gene generalion  ralion generalion  of  Frenchmen.  We  cannot  conceive  what  incom incomprehensible  prehensible incomprehensible  accident  threw  PALarox  into  the  present  ten tentun  tun tentun  ;—he  belonged  to  an  age  and  a  country,  which  have  been  long  no  more.  His  affections  and  sentiments  were  suGcated  in  the  narrow  cell  of  modern  society.  Rome,  in  her  most  glorious  period,  was  his  country.,  No  other  community  presented  a  theatre  sufficiently  wide  for  the  expansion  of  his  feelings.  for  the  comprehensiveness  of  his  v  iews.  From  that  sublime  picture,  let  us  now  cast  our  eyes  on  that  of  BONAPARTE%—surrounded  with  all  the  glare  of  human  grandeur,—counting  Kings  and  Princes  among  his  vassals  anti  servants  ;—and  behold  him  tortured  with  jealousy  and  fear  ;—a  stranger  on  the  face  of  the  earth  ;  an  outlaw  in  society  ;—labouring  incessantly  and  anxiously  to  be  completely  miserable  ;—distrusting  and  hating  all  mankind,  particularly  the  honest  and  the  good  ;  because  lie  is  conscious  that  he  possesses  and  merits  the  full  measure  AL  REGISTER.  ~..  MARCH  19.  Of  their  detestation.  He  :nay  call  PAL  A  rox  a  coward,  and  die  people  of  Saragossa  a  miserable  rabble  ;  but  if  he  re retain  tain retain  any  trace  of  former  impressions,  he  has  the  mortifi mortifi;iition  ;iition mortifi;iition  to  feel,•  that  even  the  vilest  and  most  obdurate  of  his  own  minions  laugh  at  the  extravagance  of  his  rage,  and  condemn  the  gross  impudence  of  his  falsehood.  We  hope  there  arc  no  more  admirers  in  this  country  of  that  ruffian.  If  there  arc,  and  they  should  have  the  effron effrontery  tery effrontery  to  disclose  that  admiration,  they  should  be  kicked  from  every  society.  Their  admiration  is  complicated  trea treason;—they  son;—they treason;—they  are  traitors  to  their  country  as  well  as  to  all  mankind.  The  journal  which  should  evince  a  single  word  in  extenuation  of  his  crimes,  deserves  to  be  burnt  by  the  hands  gif  the  hangman.  The  defence  of  Saragossa  is,  unquestionably,  the  noblest  monument  of  modern  warfare.  We  find  even  in  antient  records  only  two  examples,  and  those  in  the  very  Peninsula  where  this  has  been  gisen,—Saguntum  and  Numantia.  In  sousequence  of  the  perfection  to  which  the  art  of  is  brought  at  present,  fortresses  of  the  first  order  unahle  to  sastain  a  siege  'of  two  months.  Two  rend)  armies,  concluded  by  three  Marshals,  have  been  .uriployed  for  three  months,  against  a  place,  which  was  no  mtter  than  au  open  town.  Et  . STYLE=superscript  ery  house,  every  church,  oat  street  were  defended,  to  the  last  extremity,  by  the  ;onerous  inhabitants.  A  numerous  and  formidable  artil-  LI  was  kept  playing  night  and  day  on  the  city.  Mines  vere  incessantly  sprung,  which  blew  up  whole  quarters  to to.;ether  .;ether to.;ether  with  the  people  ho  rcs!ded  theme,  into  the  air  ;  and  !Rise  complicated  horrors  could  not  subdue  the  spirit  of  he  Sarnessans  !  W:vat  a  sublime  picture  I  What  a  unity  •)f  will  and  action  in  so  large  a  body  The  longer  me  ex exmine  mine exmine  it,  the  more  we  admire,  love  and  commiserate  that  magnanimous  people;  the  more  execrations  do  we  call  :town  on  the  head  of  the  Monster  who  has  wantonly  exer exercised  cised exercised  on  them  so  much  savage  ferocity.  Dutch  Gazettes  to  the  12th  instant  arrived  on  Friday  in  town.  Their  contents  extinguish  even  the  shadow  of  a  doubt  which  might  have  been  still  entertained  of  a  rupture  between  France  and  Austria.  As  we  always  anticipated,—  the  latter  is  the  aggressor.  We  hail  this  circumstance  as  an  auspicious  symptom  ;—it  is  an  earnest  of  the  resolution  with  which  she  has  determined  to  carry  on  the  contest.  Notwithstanding  the  artifice,  subterfuges,  and  affected  depreciation  which  mark  the  articles  in  the  ,4enitrur,  that  advert  to  the  financial  and  military  resources  of  Austria,  it  is  easy  to  perceise  that  BoNAPARTE  enters  with  great  re reluctance  luctance reluctance  on  the  present  contest.  We  miss  a  strong  feature  in  his  conduct,—that  promptitude  and  rapidity,  which  characterised  his  former  operations.  Almost  two  months  have  already  elapsed  since  his  departure  from  Spain  ;  and  notwithstanding  the  menacing  demonstrations  which  Austria  continued  to  make  since  that  time;  notwithstand notwithstanding  ing notwithstanding  the  jealousy  and  irritation  he  displayed  at  the  conduct  of  that  power,  he  still  continued  his  efforts  to  compromise  the  subject  of  dispute  by  negociation.  We  are  justified  to  draw  two  conclusions  on  the  occasion,—that  his  present  means  arc  inadequate  to  carry  on  the  contest  with  a  cer cerfalnty  falnty cerfalnty  of  success  . STYLE=superscript  ;  and  that  a  new  war  is  extremely  wipo  . STYLE=superscript  pular  in  France.  These  conclusions,  if  well  founded,  will  account  for  that  tissue  of  falshood  and  abuse  which  are  so  prominent  in  the  remarks  of  the  French  and  Dutch  Jour•  mils.  Previous  to  the  two  last  campaigns  on  the  Danube  and  the  Saal,  when  the  tyrant  was  sure  of  his  prey,  he  glaringly  affected  the  very  reverse  of  this  conduct;  and  em employed  ployed employed  a  nauseous  strain  of  sympathy  and  regret  when  he  adverted  to  the  infatuation  of  the  courts  of  Vienna  and  Berlin.  This  detectable  cant  was  never  used  with  more  un unblushing  blushing unblushing  insolence,  than  during  the  short  interval  of  a  few  days,  which  intervened  between  the  time  of  his  arrival  at  Wurtzburg  and  the  battle  of  Jena.  After  he  had  already  decreed  the  doom  of  the  Prussian  monarchl  ;  after  his  armies  had  begun  their  march  in  every  direction  ;  and  in  proportion  as  they  approached  the  frontiers  of  Saxony,—  the  language  of  the  wily  ruffian  became  more  conciliatory  P14_TB00011 anu  naminb  ail  armies  had  begun  their  march  in  every  direction  ;  and  in  14  the  good  ;  because  proportion  as  they  approached  the  frontiers  of  Saxony,—  rits  the  full  measure  the  language  of  the  wily  ruffian  became  more  conciliatory  ;"
