text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  Highness  would  have  availed  himself  of  this  occasion  for  the  ultimate  display  of  his  ability  and  patriotism.  His  coun country,  try, country,  it  is  now  palpable,  gained  nothing  by  resisting  his  laudable  ambition.  It  is  small  consolation  to  reflect,  that,  in  opposing  the  appointment  of  our  Commander  in  Chief  over  the  Expedition  to  Portugal,  we  procured  for  ourselves  the  Convention  of  Cintra  t  Nothing  could  have  happened  worse  than  what  has  really  ensued.  Valour  has  not  added  one  unfailing;  laurel  to  our  brows  ;  and  royalty  has  been  denied  the  noblest  opportunity  that  occurred  for  the  exer exertion  tion exertion  of  its  highest  duties,  and  the  display  of  its  brightest  effulgence.  1  feel  more  satisfaction,  however,  in  adverting.  to  the  official  domestic  regulations  of  the  present  Com Commander  mander Commander  in  Chief.  Certainly,  whatever  immaterial  inaccu inaccuracies  racies inaccuracies  may  he  imagined  to  have  existed  in  the  military  de department  partment department  of  the  government,  his  Ho.  al  Highness  has  essen essentially  tially essentially  ameliorated,  and  constitutionally  improved,  the  con condition  dition condition  of  our  land  forces.  Disaffection  has  disappeared  from  among  the  soldiery,  and  discipline  superseded  insub insubordination.  ordination. insubordination.  The  very  documents,  it  should  be  observed,  adduced  against  him,  and  which  were  supposed  to  criminate  his  character  in  other  respects,  evidence,  beyond  con:ra con:radiction,  diction, con:radiction,  his  attention  to  his  professional  avocations.  lie  could  not  nabosam  himself,  even  to  the  confidant  of  his  sentiments,  without  alluding,  at  the  same  time,  to  the  higher  objects  of  his  pursuit.  Where  was  otherwise  the  necessity  for  his  mingling,  with  his  amatory  intercourse,  an  account  of  his  visiting  the  works  at  Dover,  of  his  reviewing,;  the  troops  there,  and  exemining  the  coast  as  far  as  Sandgate  and  of  his  setting  off  immediately  to  along  the  coast  to  Hastings,  reviewing  the  different  as  he  passed,  which  would  again  occupy  him,  at  least,  thirteen  hours  This  does  not  seem  to  be  the  confi confidential  dential confidential  letter-writing  of  one  who  is  neglectful  of  his  public  duties.  A  man  may  have  incautiously  erred,  when  there  is  no  reason  to  believe  that  he  has  wilfully  sinned.  He  ;nay  have  been  wrongly  practicable,  without  being  any  thing  like  seriously  criminal.  Assuming  it  as  granted,  however,  that  the  Duke  of  York  feels  himself  perfectly  free  from  the  charges  which  have  recently  been  preferred  against  him,  I  consider  him  rather  misadvised  in  the  formation  of  the  Letter  communi communicated  cated communicated  from  him  to  the  House  of  Commons.  He  therein  concedes  too  much  respecting  himself,  but  too  little  as  it  affects  his  country.  Instead  of  intimating  the  hope  that  the  House  of  Commons  will  not,  upon  such  evidence  as  they  have  heard,  adopt  any  proceeding  prejudicial  his  own  honour  and  and  submitting  himself  to  the  ordinary  forms  of  jurisprudence,  observed  as  to  similar  impeachments,  only  if,  on  such  testimony  as  has  been,  adduced  him,  the  House  of  Commons  can  his  innocence  instead  of  this  line  of  conduct,  which  more  than  insinuates  the  utter  falsity  of  his  accusers,  and  seems  to  petition  the  clemency  of  his  present  judges,  how  truly  would  it  become  his  Royal  Highness,.  whether  as  it  refers  to  the  honour  of  his  country  or  the  welfare  of  his  family,  to  step  boldly'  forward,  and,  be  the  vote  of  the  Commons  what  it  may,  still  demand  an  open  trial  before  his  Peers  !  It  is  here,  therefore,  that  he  acts  as  if  he  was  not  strictly  admonished  to  consult  the  opinion  of  the  country.  With  respect  to  his  private  amours,  he  has  conceded  more  than  any  rational  person  could  have  desired.  While  his  Royal  Highness  did  observe,  with  the  deepest  con 'concern,'  his  name  coupled  with  transactions  the  most  criminal  and  there  yet  appeared  no  absolute  necessity  for  him  so  publicly  to  regret  and  lament  that  a  connection  should  ever  have  existed  which  has  thus  ex 'exposed'  his  character  and  honour  to  public  animadver 'animadversion.'  No  man  thus  exacted  from  him  the  part  of  the  repenting  Efrodigal.  His  own  personal  dignity  seems  to  have  been  attended  to  as  little  as  the  satisfaction  of  be  public.  It  is  to  the  Horse-Guards,  and  not  to  Glorcester Glorcesterplace,  place, Glorcesterplace,  that  the  attention  of  the  public  is  anxiously  di directed.  rected. directed.  Whoever  assures  the  present  Duke  of  York  other otherwise,  wise, otherwise,  is,  however  uuwittingly,  his  greatest  enemy.  .tx*  131  .-•  The  people  of  this  country,  distinguished  as  they  are  for  national  probity,  still  abhor  the  individual  attecta.  Lion  of  being  righteous  - STYLE=superscript  It  is  not  so  much  good  men,  as  wise  men,  that  existiug  stances  unhappily  demand.  Having  long  appreciated  the  morality  of  monarchy,  men  begin  to  wish  for  the  abi ability  lity ability  of  monarchy  also.  This  is  now  the  great  political  desideratum.  I  regret,  therefore,  let  me  repeat  it,  that,  instead  of  being  detained  at  home  to  meet  the  charges  of  courtesans,  the  Commander  in  Chief  was  not  sent  abroad  to  encounter  the  enemies  of  his  country.  The  present  Duke  of  York  will,  I  trust,  be  some  day  autho-.  rised  to  emulate  the  conduct  or  one  of  the  greatest  modem  Being  constantly  busy,  he  (Prince  Eugene)  held  the  passion  of  love  cheap  ;  as  - STYLE=superscript  a  in  amtuntnent,  that  served  only  to  enlarge  the  power  of  women,  and  to  abridge  that  of  man.  He  was  accus:vmed  to  sly  lean  amourenx  scut  dans  la  sotieles  cc  que  les  fanatiques  sonl  en  Why  shonld,not  his  .Royal  *Highness  derive  as  much  sa salutary  lutary salutary  instruction  by  his  military  errors,  as  by  his  amatory  mistakes?  He  has  already  reformed  the  latter,  and  may.  live  amply  to  repair.the  former.  There  is  some  reason  to  indulge  this  opinion,  when,  as  it  confessedly  appears,  we  reflect  that  to  amatory  mistakes  we  must  impute  Hiany  of  our  military  errors.  February  '25,  1809.  01VRSIMUS.  A  MONUMENT  TO  THE  MEMORY  OF  SIR  RALPH  ABERCROMI3IE,  From  the  masterly  Chisel  by  W  ESTM  ACOTT.  and  beantifally  engraved  byWoo  LNOTH,  will  he  published,  by  special  prmis prmission,  sion, prmission,  in  Le  Bean  Mantle  Magazine  on  Wednesday  next,  The  Friends  of  the  deceased  Ilero,  and  the  Army,  will  encourage  this  tribute  to  a  man  whose  deeds  and  life  shed  au  immortal  lustre  on  his  country  and  its  arms.  Immediate  Orders  should  be  given  for  Le  Beau  Monde  Maga Magazine,  zine, Magazine,  to  secure  early  Impressions  of  the  Plate,  at  the  Office  s  No.  11,  Catherine-street,  Strand.  IMPERIAL  PAWAMENT.  HOUSE  OF  LORDS.  Monday,  Feb.  20.  The  Malt  and  Pension  Duties  Bills.  and  the  two  Exchequer  Bills  Bills,  as  Avell  as  the  Equity  DAtor's  Bills,  were  severally  passed  through  Committees  of  the  whole  House,  and  reported  without  any  amendment.  The  Earl  of  I.lvruroor.  moved  the  second  reading  of  the  Militia  Enlistment  Bill.  The  Bill  was  ordered  to  be  read  a  second  time.—Adjourned.  Wednesda.u,  Feb.  22.  The  Royal  Assent  was  given.  by  comtnission,  to  the  Malt  Duty  ~  Bill,  the  Pension  Bill,  and  the  two  Exchequer  Bills  Bills.  The  Cumberland  Fishery  Bill  was  read  for  the  first  time.  The  Equity  Debtors  Bill  went  through  a  third  reading,  and  passed.—Adjourned.  Thursday,  Feb.  23.  STATE  OF  PORTUGAL:  The  Earl  of  BucatNGTIAMSIIIR  relse  to  mention  the  notice  he  had  given  on  a  former  day  of  a  motion  on  the  state  of  Portu Portugal.  gal. Portugal.  The  Earl  of  DA  RN  LEY  vri6hed  to  know  whether  the  informa information  tion information  to  be  laid  before  the  House  would  relate  to  the  army  alter  it  left  Portugal,  to  join  Sir  John  Moore.  The  Earl  of  LAYER  root;  assured  the  Noble  Earl,  that  the  in.  formation  would  embrace  every  object  necessary  to  afford  satis satisfactory  factory satisfactory  enquiry  respecting  the  affairs  of  Portugal.  The  Militia  Inlisting  Bill  was  read  the  third  time  and  passo.  —Adjourned.  Friday,  Feb.  24.  Three  private  Bilis  from  the  Commons  were  presented;  and  the  Irish  Enlistmegt  Militia  Bill  read  for  Alse  first  time.—•..id.  :owned.  ■  ■  ID  I=  ME  1  t  \  IP  6  P3_TB00025 h  r.  14,  P3_TB00026 .  .  ,  .  duties.  A  man  may  have  incautiously  erred,  when  - STYLE=superscript  there  this  tribute  to  a  man  whose  deeds  and  tine  sued  au  immortal  1  1  is  no  reason  to  believe  that  he  has  wilfully  sinned.  lie  lustre  on  his STYLE=superscript  countr STYLE=superscript  y  and STYLE=superscript  its STYLE=superscript  arms. STYLE=superscript  may  have  been  wrongly  practicable,  without  being  any  ,  •  Immediate  Orders  should  be  given  for  Le  Beau  Montle  Maga-  /  thing  like  seriously  criminal.  Assuming  it  as  granted,  however,  that  the  Dille  off  No.  11,  Catherine-street,  Strand.  zine,  to  secure  early  impressions  of  the  Plate,  at  the  Offices  1  York  feels  himself  perfectly  free  from  the  charges  which  ~  ,''  •  have  recently  been  preferred  against  him,  I  consider  him  IMPERIAL  PAIiLIA  MEN  T.  l  l  .  rather  misadyised  in  the  formation  of  the  Letter  communi-  —  us  ,  cated  from  him  to  the  House  of  Commons.  He  therein  HOUSE  OF  LORDS.  concedes  too  much  respecting  himself,  but  too  little  as  it  Monday,  Feb.  20.  allects  his  country.  Instead  of  intimating  the  hope  that  The  Malt  and  Pension  Duties  Bills.  and  the  two  Exchequer  ,  1  .'  •  the  House  of  Commons  will  not,  upon  such  evidence  as  Bills  Bills,  as  AM!  as  the  Equity  DAtor's  Bills,  were  severally  they  have  heard,  adopt  any  proceeding  prejudicial  his  passed  through  Committees  of  the  whole  House,  and  reported  own  honour  and  and  suhmitting  himself  to  without  any  amendment.  the  ordinary  forms  of  jurisprudence,  observed  as  to  similar  impeachments,  only  64 STYLE=superscript  if,  on  such  testimony  as  has  been,  adduced  m,  hi  House  of  Commons  can  .  T  h  e  M  i  l  i  t  ia  i  h  te  e  Ka  rl  impeachments,  nlistment  Bill.  of  Lty  en  root,  moved  the  second  reading  of  the  r  Bill  was  ordered  to  be  read  a  second  time.  — STYLE=superscript  Adjourned.  1.  .  ,  his  innocence  instead  of  this  line  of  ,  conduct,  which  mote  than  insinuates  the  utter  falsity  of  his  ,  Wednesday,  Feb.  22.  .  ~  accusers,  and  seems  to  petition  the  clemency  of  his  present  The  Royal  Assent  was  given,  by  commission,  to  the  Malt  Duty  ~..  *Highness,  ,  Bill,  the  Pension  Bill,  and  the  two  Exchequer  Bills  Bills.  i  judges,  how  truly  would  it  become  his  Royal  The  Cumberland  Fishery  Bill  was  read  for  the  first  time.  4  i  whether  as  it  refers  to  the  honour  of  his  country  or  the  The  Equity  Debtors  Bill  went  through  a  third  reading,  and  welfare  of  his  family,  to  step  boldly'forward,  and,  be  the  passed.—Adjourned.  vote  of  the  Commons  what  It  may,  still  demand  an  open  ..---.  trial  before  his  Peers  !  It  is  here,  therefore,  that  he  acts  as  Thursday,  Feb.  2S.  if  he  was  not  strictly  admonished  to  consult  the  opinion  of  STATE  OF  PORTVGAL:  the  country.  I  With  respect  to  his  private  amours,  he  has  conceded  The  Earl  of  BucKiNGTIAMSIIIR  F.  rase  to  mention  the  notice  ',.  more  than  any  rational  person  could  have  desired.  While  he  i  !tad  given  on  a  former  day  of  a  motion  on  the  state  o STYLE=superscript  f  Portu- STYLE=superscript  i  . STYLE=superscript  his  Royal  Highness  did  observe,  with  the  deepest  con-  ga STYLE=superscript  The  Earl  OrDARNLET  wished  to  know  whether  the  informa-  his  name  coupled  with  transactions  the  most  tion  to  be  laid  before  the  House  would  relate  to  the  a  rm STYLE=superscript  y  after STYLE=superscript  criminal  and  there  yet  appeared  no  absolute  it  left  Portugal,  to  join  Sir  John  Moore.  necessity  for  hint  so  publicly  to  and  lament  that  The  Earl  of  Liv  ER  root;  assured  the  Nob  le STYLE=superscript  E  arl, STYLE=superscript  that STYLE=superscript  the  ill.  a  connection  should  ever  have  existed  which  has  thus  ex-  formation  would  embrace  every  olject  necessary  to  afford  satis-  his  character  and  honour  to  public  animadver-  factory  enquiry  respecting  the  affairs  of  Por  tugal.  No  man  thus  exacted  from  him  the  part  of  the  The STYLE=superscript  Militia  Uniting  Bill  was  read  the  third  time  turd  passed.  —Adjourned.  repenting  Etrodigal.  His  own  personal  dignity  seems  to  •  .  .  ,  .  am.••••••••••..~.  have  been  attended  to  as  little  as  the  satisfaction  of  be  .  Friday,  Feb.  24.  public.  It  is  to  the  Horse-Guards,  and  not  to  Gloucester-  x  oust  di  place,  that  the  attention  of  the  public  is  an.  i  .y  ..  therrhl7  private  ~  Bills  from  the  Commons  were  presented;  and  Irish  Enlistment  Militia  Bill  read  for'  be  first  time.  —••  Ad.  rected.  Whoever  assures  the  present  Duke  of  York  other-  ..  ,  •  mot  d.  wise,  is,  however  unwittingly,  his  greatest  enemy.  ~  .  ,  •  1  •  1  .  .  ,  •  .  .  !"
