text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  ton,  ae•  even  twice  recommended  by  one  of  them,  yet  that  no nothine  thine nothine  cipeld  overpower  the  iftfluence  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  who  had  determined  that  Major  Shaw  should  be  put  on  half  pay,  Find  that  bec..use  it  appeared  that  be  could  not  accommodate  Mrs.  Clarke  with  the  thousand  pounds  which  he  had  promised  to  give  to  her?  He  maintained  that  the  whole  of  this  disappointment  to  the  views  of  Major  Shaw.  arose  from  the  circumstance  of  his  having  fallen  short  of  giving  to  Mrs.  Clarke  that  10001.  which  he  stipulated  to  give  to  her  on  his  appoinnueat  to  the  rank  of  Co Colonel  lonel Colonel  ;  but  in  which  he  was  disappointed  ;  and  was  put  on  half halfpay,  pay, halfpay,  only  havine  the  nppointmeut  of  Barrack-Mrener-General  at  the  Cape  of  Good-Hope.—The  next  case  which  he  took  notice  of  was  the  case  of  Mr.  Dowler,  for  the  appointment  of  whom  he  read  from  the  evidence  of  that  witness.  that  Le  gave  to  Mr  s  .  Clarke  for  the  office  which  he  now  holds  one  tainisand  gyineas.—  Stating  further,  that  he  applied  to  no  other  person  for  it,  and  that  be  was  gazetted  in  that  office  o  ithout  aey  further  proceeding.  The  next  was  the  case  of  Samitel  Car Carter.  ter. Carter.  Here  lie  read  the  evidence  of  Mrs.  Clarke  as  to  his  ap appointment,  pointment, appointment,  and  also  the  evidence  of  her  servants,  Thomas  Walker  and  William  M‘Do  wall,  who  were  her  footman  and  coachman  at  the  house  in  Gloucester-place,  by  which  he  main maintained  tained maintained  that  this  youth  was  the  servant  of  Mrs.  Clarke  ;  that  the  fluke  of  York  knew  hint  to  he  such  ;  and  that  he  wus  appointed  by  her  influence  w;th  the  Duke  of  York  ;  that  he  %vas  en  the  Staff  in  the  1  4 STYLE=superscript  (  est  Indies  for  near  three  yteirs,  Ivithout  any  ap application  plication application  made  in  his  behalf;  and  that  it  was  impossible  it  should  be  known  here  whether  he  was  alive  or  dead  for  that  period,  as  no  inquiries  were  made  concerning  ;  all  which  he  maintained  to  be  owing  to  the  influence  which  Mrs.  Clarke  had  over  the  mind  and  cond  uct  of  his  Ro‘al  Highnee.  The  case  of  Major  Turner  he  also  maintained  to  he  one  in  which  the  in influence  fluence influence  of  Mrs.  Clarke  over  his  Koval  Highness  oas  very  great,  atk  oe  which  he  read  the  evidence.  As  to  the  case  of  Robert  Kennett,  and  connection  with  the  agents  of  the  Duke  of  York,  under  the  idea  that  that  person  would  he  able  to  lend  to  his  Rov  al  Hig  - STYLE=superscript  hness  a  sum  of  money,  it  was  a  matter  which,  although  in  itself  improper,  upon  which  he  should  not  dwell.—  I  have  said  he,  6'  perhaps  troubled  the  House  too  lone.  I  have  only  to  state,  that  I  have  put  my  sentiments  into  the  form  of  an  address  to  his  Majesty,  which  I  shall  conclude  N%  ith  moving  in  this  House—l  thought  it  justice  to  this  House— Housefhought  fhought Housefhought  it  justice  tq  the  Duke  of  York—l  thought  it  justice  to  myself,  to  state  distinctly  - STYLE=superscript  ,  and  without  disguise,  my  real  sentintents  en  this  important  subject.  1  have  endeavoured,  Sir,  to  do  so  with  all  the  delicacy  which  Is  doe  to  his  Majesty,  both  as  the  Sovereign  of  this  country,  ond  the  Father  of  the  Duke  of  York.  I  should  he  the  last  man  in  this  country  who  would  hurt  the  mind  of  an  illustrioos  Sovereign;  l;ut  on  this  occasion  I  have  no  choice.  1  have,  to  the  best  of  nty  judgment,  and  to  the  utmost  of  my  power,  done  my  duty.  The  country  will  de decide  cide decide  upon  the  conduct  of  the  Commander  in  Chief—the  country  will  decide  upon  the  conduct  of  the  House—the  country  will  decide  upon  my  conduct  ;  and  to  the  decision  of  my  country  1  cheerfully  submit.  1  now  move,  Sir,  4 STYLE=superscript  an  humble  Address  be  presented  to  his  Majest:v,  hum humbly  bly humbly  statim.  , STYLE=superscript  ;  to  his  Majesty  that  certain  information  has  been  com communicated  municated communicated  to  thL  House,  and  evidence  produced  to  support  it,  .of  various  corral;t  practices  and  other  abuses  having  prevailed  for  some  years  past,  iu  the  disposal  of  commissions  in  his  Ma...  jest)/  - STYLE=superscript  s  Land  Forces  ;  that  his  faithful  Commons,  according  to  the  duty  by  wide!)  they  are  bound  to  his  Majesty,  and  to  their  Constitueati;,  have  carefully  examined  into  the  truth  of  the  seve several  ral several  sundry  transactions  brought  before  them  in  proof  of  such  corrupt  practices,  and  -  it  is  with  the  greatest  concern  and  aston astonishment  ishment astonishment  that  his  Majesty's  faithful  Commons  find  it  their  duty  most  humbly  to  inforin  his  Majesty  that  the  result  of  their  deli deliberate  berate deliberate  inquiries  iuto  the  factscharged  by  the  examination  of  the  persons  concerned,  together  with  other  witnesses,  and  a  variety  of  documents,  being  such  as  have  satisfied  hi,  faithful  Commons  that  the  existence  of  those  corrupt  or  dangerous  practices  are  ,•learly  proved  :  that  his  Majesty's  faithful  Coinmons  are  re restrained  strained restrained  by  their  attachment  to  his  Majesty%  perstin  and  Govern Governrhent,  rhent, Governrhent,  from  entering  into  a  detail  of  these  transactions,  being  convinced  they  could  not  he  seen  by  his  Majesty  without  excit exciting  ing exciting  sensations  of  grief  and  indignation  in  his  Royal  breast  :  they  humbly  represent  to  his  Majesty,  that  the  proceedings  of  Pus  faithful  Commons  have  been  public  upon  this  important  subject,  and  that  the  evidence  has  been  recorded  ;  and  that  they  trust  his  Majesty  will  give  them  credit  when  they  assure  his  M-jesty,  that  in  this  paiuful  discharge  of  their  duty,  his  faithful  .toinim,bs  have  proceeded  with  all  due  care  and  deliberation.  -'they  humbly  represent  to  his  Majesty.,  that  without  entering  into  the  many  injurious  consequences  which  may  hey  expected  '11)  follow  by  a  belief  only  being  generally  established  of  tat  prevalence  of  such  abuses  in  the  Military  Department,  there  is  one  great  and  essential  consideration  inseparable  Flom  the  pre present  sent present  subject,  which  they  humbly  beg  leav  e,  in  a  particular  manner  to  submit  to  his  Majesty's  consideration;  namely,  that  if  an  opinion  should  prevail  in  his  :Majesty's  Military  Forces,  that  Military  Promotions  may  he  obtaieed  by  other  means  than  merit  and  military  service,  at  once  utjast  and  disgraceful  to  his  Majesty's  army,  that  the  effect  of  such  an  opinion  must  twee,-  ,  sarily  be,  to  wouud  the  feelings  and  abater  the  zeal  of  ail  tanks  arid  descriptions  of  his  Majesty's  Military  'Forces.  Thai  it  is  the  opinion  of  this  House,  therefore,  that  the  abuses  o  hieu  they  have  most  huuthly  to  represent  his  Majesty,  could  tint  have  prevailed  to  the  great  extent  to  which  they  rinse  proved  to  exist,  without  the  knowledge  of  his  Royal  Iliginiess  the  Commander  in  Chief.  And  that  it  his  Majesty's  faithful  Commons,  reasoning  upon  any  principle  of  Prshability,  should  think  it  t  , STYLE=superscript  hould  he  presumed  that  abuses  so  ‘L.ry  enormous,  so  long  continued,  in  elFect,  have  prevailed  with  his  knoo  ledge,  such  a  belief  would  not  warrant  a  conclusion  that  he  ought  to  be  continued  as  Commander  in  Chief  of  his  Alajostv's  Military  Force  :  That  on  this  principle,  his  Alajesty's  faithful  Commons  submit  to  his  Majesty's  most  gracious  conshlet  at  ion,  that  his  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  York  ought  to  be  deprived  of  the  Com Command  mand Command  of  his  Majesty's  Mr.  By  wros7  then  rose,  end  epologized  for  trespessing  upon  the  attention  of  the  thus  early.  In  offering  his  opinions  upon  this  subject,  he  had  prepared  his  mind  upon  it  by  paying  the  best  attention  he  could  in  his  power  to  the  evidence  he  heard  by  a  constant  attendance  on  the  House,  and  a  careful  study  of  •  that  part  which  he  had  hot  heard.  It  Was  scarcely  tie tie;  ; tie;  eessary  for  him  to  state  to  the  house,  that  :tee  testimonv  of  •  such  persoas,  unless  corroborated  by  full  and  respectable  evi evidence  dence evidence  from  other  quarters,  must  certainly  fall  to  the  ground.  •  Mrs.  Clarke  was  the  principal  actress  in  this  scene.  Site  was  either  an  accomplice,  or  nothing.  There  were  many  others  of  I  the  witnesses  who  stood  in  a  similar  predicament.  lie  iestanced  Capt.  Sande°,  Airs.  Favory,  and  Miss  Taylor.  With  respect  to  the  specific  charges,  he  was  not  inclined  to  enter  into  minutia.  lie  •  would  leave  it  to  other  Grentlemen  more  recently  conversant  in  such  matters.  But  he  must  observe,  that  in  the  ease  of  Colo Colonel  nel Colonel  knight,  there  was  no  testimony  whatever  which  could  con connect  nect connect  his  Royal  Highness  with  any  thing  which  could  be  regard-  •  ed  as  criminal  in  the  transaction.  This  business  rested  solely  on  the  evidence  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  there  was  no  testimony  to  show  that  the  Illustrious  Personage  in  question  had  any  knowledge,  either  directly  or  indirectly,  of  the  affair.  The  note  of  a  hun hundred  dred hundred  pounds,  said  to  have  been  changed  by  Lodowick,•was  not  identified  in  any  way,  and  may  therefore  i.,e  fairly  supposed  to  form  a  part  of  the  ample  allowances  made  to  Mrs.  Clarke  by  the  Illustrious  Personage  in  question.  But  there  were  other  circumstances  to  show,  that  the  appoitameat,  of  Co;ottel  Nnight  was  not  procured  through  the  intervention  of  .  Mrs.  Clarke.  W  ith  respect  to  the  case  of  Capt.  Mating,  he  had  no  he  s  itation  in  '  say  ing  that  the  evidence  before  the  Hease  mt.st  decidedly  vindicated  his  Royal  Highness  from  every  imputation  and  sus suspicion  picion suspicion  of  undue  influence  or  corrupt  views  and  cals.  That  Gentleman  had  been  fairly  promoted  on  the  recornmea:  s  stion  of  General  Fraser,  an  officer  of  distinguished  merit  and  w  most  undoubted  integrity.  The  fact  which  had  been  so  sroresly  . STYLE=superscript  relied  upon,  that  Captain  Mating  was  still  to  be  found  at  Mr.  Greenwood's  desk,  was  disproved  by  the  testimies  of  Colonel  Gordon,  who  had  clearly  stated  to  the  Committee,  that  in  his  opinion  there  was  not  to  be  found  in  the  army,  for  the  chink  he  held,  a  more  meritorious  officer  than  Captain  .  He  next  came  to  that  part  of  the  charges  which  ielateti  to  Col.  French's  levy,  and  here  he  would  maintain,  that  it  was  sanc sanctioned  tioned sanctioned  by  the  necessity  of  extraordinary  exertions  fin  increasing  our  military  force  by  recruits  and  new  enlistments  at  !Ili,:  par particular  ticular particular  period  and  urgent  crisis.  Mr.  Burton  nese  iitered  into  a  long  detail  of  reasoning,  for  the  purpose  of  ,:ltew  it:;;  that,  in  the  single  conversation  which  had  occurs:at  respect respecting  ing respecting  Colonel  French's  levy,  there  did  not  appear  any  psoia'ss  hat hatever  ever hatever  that  his  Royal  Highness  had  been  influenced,  in  Cie  course  of  that  transaction,  by  ,motives  in  the  slightest  degree  improper  •or  corrupt.  In  the  consideration  of  Captain  Tonyu's  case,  it  was  stated,  that  the  sum  of  3001.  had  been  paid  to  Airs.  Clarke.  But  what  was  the  real  fact?  The  interference  of  sirs.  Clarke  had  no  influence  whatever  in  obtaining  that  gentlemati's  promo.  tion.  Captain  Tonyn  was  the  son  of  a  General  Officer,  of  whoa,  recommendation  he  had  been  appointed  and  promoted  in  the  ore  diutery  .and  regular  way,  as  appeared  front  the  testimuay  •  P7_TB00005 or  latuor  turner  ne  also  maintained  to  tae  one  in  tv  0  iCli  tile  10-  I  ltellt  -0  of  Mrs.  Clarke  over  his  RoN  al  I  i  i-hue,ss  was  very  great,  1  that  part  w  hich  he  had  hot  beard.  - STYLE=superscript  i  il  s,  oessary  for  him  to  state  to  the  house,  that  :lie  testimony  of  •  ;111,4.  1 STYLE=superscript  Oi:  which  he  read  the  evidence.  As  to  the  case  of  Robert  .  :  1 STYLE=superscript  1  111 STYLE=superscript  ilrl STYLE=superscript  .Kennett,  and  iiii;  connection  with  the  .  nts  of  the  Duke  of  it  was  a  matter  w  bleb,  ..  , STYLE=superscript  ..  ,  n  it  e  l  l  i  t  er  persoas,  unless  corroborated  by  full  and  respectable  evi-  nae  York,  under  the  idea  that  that  person  would  he  able  to  lend  to  his  Royal  Highness  a  sum  of  money,  •  although  in  itself  improper,  upon  which  he  should  not  dwell.—  1  I  have  said  he,  perhaps  troubled  the  Douse  too  long.  I  have  only  to  state,  that  I  have  put  my  sentiments  into  the  form  of  an  address  to  his  Majesty,  which  I  shall  conclude  with  moving  in  this  House—l  thought  it  justice  to  this  llouse—  dence  from  other  quarters,  must  certainly  fell  to  the  ground.  •  Mra  Clarke  was  the  principal  actress  in  this  scene.  She  was  an  aceomp  ice,  or  nothing.  There  were  many  others  of  the  witnesses.  who  stood  in  a  similar  predicament.  He  iastaneed  Capt.  Samlon,  Mrs.  Favory,  and  Miss  Taylor.  Wit  h  respect  to  the  spec;  tic  charges,  he  was  not  inclined  to  enter  into  minutia.  lie  •  would  leave  it  to  other  Gentlemen  more  recently  conversant  in  such  But  he  must  observe,  that  in  the  case  of  Colo-  •.,  ,  i.  •  1  thought  it  justice  to  the  Duke  of  York—l  thought  it  justice  net  knight,  there  was  no  testimony  whatever  ivhieli  could  con-  .  I  to  myself,  to  state  distinctly  - STYLE=superscript  ,  and  without  disguise,  my  real  nect  his  Royal  Highness  with  any  thing  which  could  be  regard-  •  sentiatents  en  this  important  subject.  1  have  endeavoured,  Sir,  ed  as  criminal  in  the  transaction.  This  business  rested  solely  (  to  do  so  with  all  the  delicacy  which'  s  due  to  his  Majesty,  both  1 STYLE=superscript  1  1' STYLE=superscript  or  the  evidence  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  there  was  no  testimony  to  sho  ßi STYLE=superscript  as  the  Sovereign  of  this  country,  and  the  Father  of  the  Duke  of  that  the  Illustrious  Personage  in  question  had  e  any  knowledg  .  .  York.  I  should  he  the  last  man  in  this  country  who  would  either  directly  or  indirectly,  of  the  affair.  The  note  of  a  him-  bort  the  mind  of  an  illustrioas  Sovereign;  hut  on  this  occasion  dred  pounds,  said  to  have  been  changed  by  Lodowick,•was  not  I  have  no  choice.  1  have,  to  the  best  o'  my  judgment,  and  to  identified  in  any  way,  and  may  therefore  I,e  fairly  supposed  to  the  utmost  of  my  power,  done  my  duty.  The  country  will  de- STYLE=superscript  form  a  part  of  the  ample  allowances  made  to  Mrs.  Clarke  by  .1  IL  cote  upon  the  conduct  of  the  Commander  in  Chief—the  country  th  e  Illustrious  Personage  in  question.  But  there  were  other  will  decide  upon  the  conduct  of  the  House—the  country  will  circumstances  to  show,  that  the  appointmeat,  of  Co;ottel  Nnight  deride  Upon  my  conduct  ;  and  to  the  decision  of  my  country  I  was  not  procured  through  the  interventiou  ot.Mrs.  Clarke.  With  •  cheerfully  submit.  1  now  move,  Sir,  respect  to  the  case  of  Capt.  Dialing,  he  had  no  he  s  itation  in  That  an  humble  Address  be  presented  to  his  Majesty,  hum-  '  say  ing  that  the  evidence  before  the  Ilelse  most  decidedly  ‘ STYLE=superscript  1  '  bly  6tatir  . STYLE=superscript  4.  , STYLE=superscript  ;  to  his  Majesty  that  certain  information  has  been  coin-  vindicated  his  Royal  Highness  from  every  imputation  and  sits-  municated  to  tai:  House,  and  evidence  produced  to  support  it,  picion  of  undue  influence  or  corrupt  views  and  cals.  .  That  of  various  corruLL  practices  and  other  abuses  having  prevailed  h  Gentleman  had  been  fairly  promoted  on  the  recornmen:i  .  -  , STYLE=superscript  aion  of  for  some  years  past,  iu  the  disposal  of  commissions  in  hi  s  -  M  —Ft-  General  Fraser,  an  officer  of  distinguished  merit  and  1)I  i  •.t:  most  jelly's  a  1  an.l  Forces  ;  that  his  faithful  Commons,  according  to  undoubted  integrity.  The  fact  which  had  been  :-.0  -!rongly  i.  the  duty  by  which  they  are  bound  to  his  Majesty,  and  to  their  relied  upon,  that  Captain  Mating  was  still  to  be  found  at  Mr.  •  ;  Coostitueata  have  carefully  examined  into  the  truth  of  the  seve-  Greenwood's  desk,  was  disprove?  by  the  testinite,  of  Colonel  1  •  rill  sundry  transactions  brought  before  them  in  proof  of  such  Gordon,  who  had  clearly  stated  to  the  Committee,  that  in  his  I  .  corrupt  prat.  lices,  attkit  is  with  the  greatest  concern  and  aston  - STYLE=superscript  o STYLE=superscript  p  inion STYLE=superscript  there STYLE=superscript  was STYLE=superscript  not STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  be STYLE=superscript  found STYLE=superscript  in STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  army, STYLE=superscript  for  ti  at.  rttok  he  a  ishment  that  his  Majesty's  faithful  Commons  find  it  their  duty  held,  a  more  meritorious  officer  than  Captain.  :fattier-,--  ;  ••  twist  humbly  to  inform  his  Maje  - STYLE=superscript  sty  that  the  result  of  their  deli-  ,  He  next  came  to  that  part  of  the  charnel  which  i  elateti  to  CA.  :  .  .  ~  !aerate  inquiries  into  the  factscharged  by  the  examination  of  the  French's  levy,  and  here  he  would  maintain,  that  it  was  sane-  persons  concerned,  together  with  other  witnesses,  and  a  variety  tinned  by  the  necessity  .  .  of  extraordinary  exertions  leer  iota-easing  .;•  of  documents,  being  such  as  have  satisfied  hi,  fait  Vol  Commons  our  military  force  by  recruits  and  new  enlistments  a.  Ilia  par-  that  the  existence  of  those  corrupt  or  dangerous  practices  are  ticular  period  and  urgent  crisis.  Mr.  Burton  tier,.  ,  ;:tercel  ..  learly  proved  :  that  his  Majesty's  faithful  Commons  are  re-  into  a  long  detail  of  reasoning,  for  the  purpose  of  :Itt:%;  O:g-  •  .  strained  by  their  attachment  to  his  Majesty's  person  and  Govern-  that,  in  the  single  conversation  which  had  occurred  res  .  pect-  I  meat,  from  entering  into  a  detail  of  these  transactions,  being  ing  Colonel  French's  levy,  there  did  not  appear  any  proo;  %s  hat-  l'  convinced  they  could  not  he  seen  by  his  Majesty  without  excit-  ever  that  his  Royal  Highness  had  been  influenced,  iu  t...  course  ;  ing  sensations  of  grief  and  indignation  in  his  Royal  breast  :  they  of  that  transaction,  by  ,motives  in  the  slightest  degree  !  to  pro  per  -  t  humbly  represent  to  his  Majesty,  that  the  proceedings  of  or  corrup  his  faithful  Commons  have  been  public  upon  this  important  was  stated,  that  thet.  In  the  consideration  of  Captain  A  Toiiyo  s  case,  it  -  •1  sum  of  3001.  had  been  paid  to  rs.  Clarke.  '''  subject,  and  that  the  evidence  has  been  recorded;  and  that  they  But STYLE=superscript  what STYLE=superscript  was STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  real STYLE=superscript  fact STYLE=superscript  ?  The  interferenceof  sirs.  Clarke  trust  his  Majesty  will  give  them  credit  when  they  assure  his  had  no  influence  whatever  in  obtaining  that  gentleoma  s  pronto.  c:  i,  M-jesty,  that  in  this  palled  discharge  of  their  duty,  his  faithful  tom.  Captain  Tonyn  was  the  sou  of  a  General  Officer,  ut  w  ha.,  •  toubto,,bs  have  proceeded  with  all  due  care  and  deliberation.  t  ri;  u  com  y  in  u  e  ti  n  d  ilti  r  ti  c  i  ,  m  li  h  .  e  r  h  l  a  i  d  i)  het  a  i  s  a  a  p  i  p  l  it  r  e  e  t  ti  l  and  fo  i  l  l  i  t  ro  t  t  h  a  e  ot,:  ,e  d  ,t  i  t  n  iu  t  o  ht  a  ;o  o  tie  1,,  :  .  'they  humbly  represent  to  his  Ma  j  esty,  that  enterin  g  i  1  1  •  •"
