text
"JAN.  1.  Friday  a  Court  of  Directors  was  held  at  the  East  India  House,  when  the  undermentioned  Commanders  took  leave  previous  to  departinc  , STYLE=superscript  for  their  respective  destinations,  viz.  Capt.  A.  F.  W.  Swi  nton,  Carnatic,  Madeira,  Madras,  and  Bengal.  Capt.  J.  Tweedale,  Perseverance  ;  Capt.  W  .  Campbell,  Nottingham  ;  and  J.  Birch,  Britannia,  Madras,  and  China.  The  Court  adjourned  at  six  o'clock  till  Wed-  nesday  next.  Tuesday  the  Lord  Mayor  after  examining  the  returns  of  the  Mealweighers,  ordered  the  price  of  Bread  to  remain  as  last  week.  SINGULARITY  IN  MGR  LIFX.—The  .mistress  of  an  ample  domain  and  family  mansion,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  :Blackheath,  is  considered  a  most  eccentric  character.  Her  benevolence  is  unbounded,  and  she  possesses  an  amiable  disposition  ;  but  she  imbibes  the  most  whimsical  ideas.  A  few  days  since,  she  imagined  that  the  Prince  of  Darkness  had  taken  his  abode  in  the  backs  of  certain  ancient  fatuity  chairs,  and,  in  order  to  serve  Satan  with  an  action  01  ejectment,  she  sent  for  a  carpenter,  and  compelled  him  in  her  presence,  to  reduce  the  chairs  to  stools.  The  backs  of  course  were  condemned  to  that  element  where  the  Satanic  enemy  is  supposed  to  reside.  This  Lady,  on  a  former  oc occasion,  casion, occasion,  received,  as  a  present,  a  most  beautiful  animal  of  the  horned  species,  brought  from  Peru.  She  was  extreme extremely  ly extremely  partial  to  it,  and  the  little  favourite  was  placed  on  the  awn  before  the  house,  where  its  tricks  and  appearance  de deighted  ighted deighted  the  family.  The  fond  mistress  having  one  day  eft  a  rose  which  she  had  plucked  in  the  garden,  on  the  -  steps  of  the  hall,  the  favourite  not  only  breathed  the  fra fragrance  grance fragrance  of  the  flower,  but  ate  the  damask  buds.  Before  he  _had  finished  his  repast  the  Lady  noticed  the  act,  and  she  immediately  turned  away  from  her  favourite,  and  would  never  see  it  again.  She  'entertained  an  idea  that  the  animal  had  violated  her  hospitality,  by  destroying  her  favourite  flower.  Many  other  instances  of  refined  singularity  have  •  distinguished  this  Lady  among  her  neighbours.  Mr.  Horne  Tooke  is  so  much  recovered  as  to  be  declared  by  his  physicians  able  to  weather  the  winter  in  point  of  physical  strength,  provided  his  mind  can  be  kept  riding  quietly  at  anchor,  and  not  suffered  to  adventure  any  more  on  the  political  ocean  I  A  new  plan  has  been  recently  suggested  for  enlarging  Smithfield  Market,  or  rather  for  rendering  the  present  space  adequate  to  the  transaction  of  the  increased  business  of  the  market.  It  is  proposed  to  remove  the  sheep  market  to  an  upper  story,  to  he  constructed  of  cast  iron,  over  the  present  space,  with  inclined  planes,  for  the  ascent  of  the  sheep,  and  that  the  whole  of  the'  space  beneath  should  be  used  as  a  market  for  horned  cattle.  A  shrewish  wife  pressing  her  husband  to  partake  of  some  mock  turtle  soup,  he  peevishly  replied  :  No,  my  Dear  1  thank  yon  ;  1  have  had  a  surfeit  of  mock  turtle  since  1  An  ingenious  correspondent,  who  has  taken  some  pains  to  form  a  probable  estimate  of  the  produce  of  the  different  crossings  in  the  metropolis  and  its  vicinity,  conceives  the  gross  amount  to  be  no  !ess  than  60001.  for  one  year.  CEREMONY  OF  LAYING  THE  FOUNDATION  STONE  OF  COVENT•GARDEN  THEATRE.  The  following  Ceremony  was  observed  yesterday  on  the  occasion  of  laying  the  Foundation  Stone  of  the  New  Theatre  Royal  in  Covent  Garden  The  Grand  L.)dge  was  opened  at  twelve  o'clock  by  the  S.  W.  or  .1.  W.  or  Seni:)r  G.  0.  present.  At  half  past  12,  proceeded  to  the  place  assigned  and  waited  be  arrival  of  the  G  M.  The  arrival  of  the  O.  M.  announced  by  the  air  of  God  save  the  The  G.  M.  followed  by  the  Grand  OfficerA,  proceeded  from  the  covered  place  assi  toed  to  receive  them,  to  the  place  prepared  for  the  ceremony,  through  an  arch  raised  for  the  purpose.  The  upper  part  of  the  stone  being  raised,  the  G.  T.  deposited  in  it  the  Coins  arri  Medals.  The  cement  bein  prepared;  the  G..  M.  olosted  tbe  saute  with  11  his  tr•  - STYLE=superscript  mel,  ;tad  the  stow  was  let  down  whilst  a  marital  air  was  played.  The  G.  M.  then  tried  the  work  by  the  plumb,  the  leiel  and  the  square,  which  were  severally  presented  to  him  by  the  J.  W  the  S.  W.  and  the  deputy  G.  M.  and  having  found  it  correct.  he  layed  the  stone  by  giving  three  knocks  with  his  mallet.  The  corn,  wine,  and  oil,  were  then  presented  to  the  M.  he  scattered,  and  poured  them  on  the  stone,  and  immediately  after afterwards  wards afterwards  delivered  to  the  Architect  the  plan  ofthe  building,  desir desiring  ing desiring  him  to  complete  the  structure  according  to  that  plan;  wish wishing  ing wishing  success  and  prosperity  to  the  work,  and  the  general  object  of  it.  A  feu  de  joye  was  then  tired,  and  the  G.ll.  retired.  The  Brothers  returned  to  the  Hall  in  Procession,  and  the  Grand  Lodge  was.closed."
