text
"1:6  nish  an  almost  conclusive  testimony  that  BONAPARTE  is  preparing  to  accomplish  the  destruction  he  meditates  against  that  Power.  Whether  he  succeeds,  entirely  de depends  pends depends  on  the  rapidity  with  which  the  former  anticipates  the  attack.  As  the  present  force  he  has  in  Germany  and  in  Italy  is  perfectly  incompetent  to  the  attainment  of  his  object,  he  will,  probably,  attempt  to  lull  Austria,  by  a  semblauce  of  negociation,  into  security,  until  the  necessary  reinforcements  arrive  from  Spain.  But  this  dis  Simulation,  we  would  reasonably  suppose,  could  not  impose  on  the  most  limited  and  artless  peasant  on  the  Croatian  Moun Mountains,  tains, Mountains,  much  less  on  a  Cabinet  which  has  experienced  so  many  proofs  of  the  insincerity  and  treachery  of  the  tyrant.  It  is  impossible,  however,  to  determine  how  far  the  credu credulity  lity credulity  and  infatuation  of  Cabinets  may  not  extend.  But  of  the  departure  of  the  greater  part  of  the  French  force  now  in  Spain,  with  the  obvious  intention  of  giving  the  last  blow  tri  German  independence,  we  do  not  entertain  the  remotest  doubt.  In  this  the  tyrant  acts  consistently,  and  according  to  the  principles  of  the  justest  political  calculation.  That  he  has  been  evidently  disappointed  as  to  the  facility  with  which  he  expected  to  bend  the  Spaniards  to  the  yoke,  is  notorious  from  his  own.  declarations  some  months  ago,  when  be  said  that  even  was  to  be  accomplished  before  the  Ist  of  January.  Another  gross  deception  he  fell  into  was,  the  indifference  he  supposed  the  great  body  of  that  people  would  feel  to  the  atrocious  means  he  employed  to  compass  that  end.  He  has  now  learned,  by  personal  observation,  that  all  his  triamphs  and  dearly-purchased  victories  in  that  Country,  have  not  brought  him  a  step  nearer  to  the  ac accomplishment  complishment accomplishment  of  his  purpose,  than  he  had  been  ih  Attgust  last.  lie  has  broke  and  dissipated  their  armies  ;  but  ;  in  proportion  to  their  reverses,  their  abhorrence  of  him  and  his  detested  family,  has  acquired  additional  force  in  the  breasts  attic  na  ti  yes.  His  promises,  his  threats,  his  cajolings,  his  menaced  vengeance,  and  profound  dissinmlation  f  have  not  gained  a  single  partisan  among  the  middling  and  lower  classes;  and  he  has  sustained  the  corroding  mortification  ;  that  all  his  artifice,  and  seduction,  and  promised  reform,  the  not  produce  even  a  particle  of  confidence,  or  abate  the  deep  rooted,  national  antipathy  to  himself  and  parti partisans.  sans. partisans.  As  long  as  the  natives  were  animated  with  these  sentiments,  he  had  no  other  prospect  of  exacting  obedience  and  submission,  than  by  keeping  there  a  military  force  suf sufficient  ficient sufficient  to  awe  the  entire  population.  This  was  totally  im impracticable,  practicable, impracticable,  and  dangerous  in  the  extreme,  whilst  Austria  retained  a  semblance  of  free  will,  and  continued  her  arma armaments.  ments. armaments.  Besides,  a  much  less  profound  politician  than  BONA BONAPA  PA BONAPA  RTE  unquestionably  is,  would  have  discovered,  from  some  symptoms  in  the  North  of  Europe,  that  the  Empe Emperor  ror Emperor  ALEXANDER  begins  to  display  coolness,  if  not  signs  of  decided  hostility;  and  that  a  great  alteration  has  taken  place  in  the  views  and  sentiments  of  that  Cabinet,  he  might  have  surmised,  from  the  continuation  of  the  armistice  in  Finland.  The  journey  of  theKlisto  and  QUEEN  of  PRUSSIA  to  St.  Petersburgh,  contrary  to  his  unquestionable  inclina inclination,  tion, inclination,  and  in  manifest  contempt  of  the  permission  he  grant granted  ed granted  them  to  return  to  their  capital,  has  changed  surmise  into  certainty.  This  determination  of  FREDF.RICK  WIL WILLIAM  LIAM WILLIAM  has  disappointed  him  besides  of  another  royal  prey  ;  for  had  they  been  guilty  of  the  unsuspecting  generosity  to  return  to  their  former  capital,  whilst  Stettin,  Dantzic,  and  other  fortresses  were  garrisoned  by  the  French,  they  would  mow,  according  to  human  probability,  share  the  fate  of  the  Royal  Family  of  Spain.  The  toils  were  finely  laid  ;  but  the  illustrious  victims  did  not  forget  the  Palma  el  bona  Prentes,  Such  is  the  imperceptible  change  which  has  lately  oc occurred  curred occurred  in  the  politics  of  the  eastern  and  northern  empires  of  Continent.  The  precipitate  return  of  BON  APA  RTE  to  Paris,  and  the  short  sojourn  he  is  said  to  have  made  there,  seem  to  confirm  that  the  revolution  io  this  elrect  is  even  greater  than  Ise  have  the  courage  to  hope.  Time  con conduct  duct conduct  of  the  Prussian  Government,  since  the  evacuatiou  of  its  provinces,  iil  oidering  the  arrestation  of  1  till  CoUtt,  who  filled  a  pi:  c  ‘  ;  of  eVtliiiikfillAto  coulltleuce  wetter  the..  l'rcuch,  MARCH  5.  and  that  of  several  other  obnoxious  individuals,  who  were  likewise  employed,  during  the  occupation,  by  the  enemy,  can  be  explained  and  accounted  for,  or  even  justified,  only  by  the  revolution  which  we  suppose  to  have  taken  place  in  the  Russian  councils.  By  this  measure  the  Kier;  of  PRUSSIA  threw  the  gauntlet  in  the  tyrant's  face,  and  destroyed  every  possibility  of  future  reconciliation  or  pardon.  A  circumstance,  not  sufficiently  adverted  to,  though  mention mentioned  ed mentioned  in  the  German  and  Dutch  papers,  will  shew,  in  the  clearest  light,  the  sentiments  of  the  most  distinguished  persons  in  Prussia,  on  the  present  vacillating  state  of  con continental  tinental continental  politics,  and  fully  corroborate  our  own  conjec conjectures.  tures. conjectures.  As  soon  as  the  enemy  had  evacuated  Berlin,  every  Officer,  civil  or  military  ;  began,  a  short  time  after,  to  dis dispose  pose dispose  of  his  etrects,  or  to  transport  them  ta  Koningsberg,  —a  proof  they  had  received  intimation  that  their  Sove Sovereign  reign Sovereign  had  no  intention  of  returning  to  that  capital,  though  pressed  to  that  effect  by  BONAPARTE.  Such  is  the  present  situation  of  that  part  of  the  Continent  ;  which  is  not  under  the  immediate  and  absolute  controul  of  the  enemy.  Another  change,  not  less  auspicious,  has  taken  place  iu  Turkey  ;  and  the  Divan  has  already  con concluded  cluded concluded  a  peace  with  our  Government.  It  was  necessary  to  take  this  view,  in  order  to  estimate  the  chances  which  Austria  has,  in  case  of  a  rupture  with  France.  We  have  given,  in  a  former  Number,  some  details  relative  to  her  present  military  force.  We  have,  in  the  same  Number,  adverted  to  the  propriety  of  acting  now,  in  preference  to  any  future  occasion  ;  and  our  reasons  will  s  we  believe,  have  convioced  the  most  obstinate,  silly,  or  knavish  oppo opponent  nent opponent  of  Continental  resistance.  Procrastination,  the  mania  of  negociatinn  - STYLE=superscript  ,  a  concealment  from  her  subjects  of  her  whole  mass  of  grievances,  and  the  folly  of  relying  on  the  arts  of  diplomacy,  instead  of  the  sword,  are  the  principal  dangers  we  apprehend  for  that  Power  in  the  present  crisis.  Another  more  propitious  opportunity  of  recovering  - STYLE=superscript  her  in in!  ! in!  dependence,  than  the  present,  will,  we  arc  afraid,  never  again  present  itself.  On  the  rapidity  of  her  movements  her  fortunes  depend.  Before  the  tyrant  is  able  to  draw  a  single  regiment  from  Spain  ;  she  ought  to  overwhelm  Ba Bavaria,  varia, Bavaria,  and  secure  the  possession  of  Tyrol,  where  the  Austrian  Government  is  enthusiasiically  loved.  The  inha  , STYLE=superscript  bitants  of  those  mountains  were  always  celebrated  for  their  loyalty  and  bravery  ;  and,  during  the  whole  coarse  of  the  revolutionary  war  s  evinced  more  zeal  and  ardour  than  any  other  province  of  the  Austrian  empire.  They  have  of  late  skewed  a  most  refractory  spirit,  and,  on  several  occasions,  broke  out  into  acts  of  rebelYton  ag  ainst  the  Bavarian  Go Government,  vernment, Government,  to  which  they  were  made  over  by  the  Peace  or  Presburg.  The  same  discontent  pervades  every  part  of  the  South  of  Germany,  where  the  introduction  of  the  con conscription  scription conscription  has  completely  alienated  the  minds  of  the  natives  from  their  respective  Governments.  A  single  spark  is  suf sufficient  ficient sufficient  to  set  Switzerland  in  a  blaze,  where  French  out  , STYLE=superscript  .  rages  and  tyranny  have  festered  every  heart  ;  and  filled  it  with  the  most  rancorous  sentiments  against  their  wanton,  brutal  oppressors.  BONAPARTE  is  not  ignorant  of  the  popular  sentiment  in  Germany,  and  is  probably  prepared  to  meet  its  effects.  The  French  army  will  evacuate  the  Spanish  provinces  as  tranquillily  will  be  spread,  and  as  they  shall  unite  around  our  These  are  JOSEPU'S  words  in  his  circular  let letter  ter letter  to  the  Bishops  and  Archbishops,  and  arc  evidently  in intended  tended intended  to  disgui:ic  the  real  cause  of  their  departure.  The  pompous  and  fastidious  descripl  ion  of  his  entrance  into  Madrid,  aud  the  mention  of  so  many  deputations  from  the  several  provinces  to  do  homage  to  •the  usurper,  are  calcu calculated  lated calculated  to  impress  on  the  minds  of  the  Parisians  the  belief,  that  as  Spain  is  now  completely  tranquil  and  obedient,  a  great  military  force  is  unnecessacy.  This  will  explain  the  affected  silence  of  the  last  Bulletin  with  regard  to  military  occurrences.  Tiwig!'  we  believe,  .with  the  fullest  confidence,  that  110.tilities  in  Germany  are  not  remote,  we  still  entertain  doubt:  of  BO  NAPA  RTE'S  departuru  from  Paris.  An  ewat  of  that  LAs  lioeu  'hitherto  in  - STYLE=superscript  cue:led  b;  su:itc"
