text
"F,451110.1  , STYLE=superscript  'S  FOB  ...111111L,  The  cloth  and  velvet  mantles  and  pelisses,  trimmed  with  gold  and  silver  lace  and  fur,  are  fast  yielding  to  those  formed  of  sarsnets  rind  shawl  must  ins.  The  former  ate  eithet  of  plain  or  ti;ored  twills,  variously  shaded  and  the  latter  are  either  %if  the  teal  Lillian  shawl  fabric,  or  of  imitations  equally  rich  and  beauv  tiful  in  effect;  these  are  lined  throughout  with  sarsnets  of  well=  contrasted  colours.  The  Spanol  mantle,-  Cossack  pelisse,  and  Turkish  coat,  hare  each  a  lktrge  share  of  fashionable  dis  4  laction.  The  demi  robe-pelisses  are  constructed  so  as  to  wrap  from  one  side  entirely  round  the  figure  in  front,  and  meets  the  other  side,  with  which  it  is  united,  and  which  flows  loose  from  die  shoulder  to  the  feet.  The  collar  is  high  and  rounded,  the  back  formed  in  cross  straps,  the  front  laced  with  cord,  or  ornamented  take,  and  the  sleeves  are  full,  with  deep  arched  cull's;  it  is,  per.  haps,  impossible  to  invent  a  style  more  calculated  to  display  a  line  figure  to  advantage.  The  jockey  hat  ;  the  French  poke,  placed  towards  one  side,  and  edged  and  trimmed  across  the  crown,  n  ith  rihband  in  reversed  plaits,  or  with  variegated  floss  trimmings,  with  a  full  bunch  of  dasies  or  other  spring  flowers,  are  very  fashionable.  The  hair  cropt,  in  full  curls,  or  partially  in  ringlets,  bat  ex exposing  posing exposing  the  ear  nearly  as  high  as  the  commencement  of  the  temple,  ornamented  with  bands  of  wrought  gold,  silver,  pearl,  or  dia dia►nonds,  ►nonds, dia►nonds,  nr  with  coronets,  diadems,  and  combs  of  gems  corre-•  sponding  with  the  other  ornaments,  now  universally  distinguish  this  species  of  costume.  Flowers  in  the  hair  are  not  so  much muchworn  worn muchworn  as  is  usual  at  this  season.  A  few  days  since,  a  husband  tound  his  frail  rib  in  a  very  suspicious  situation  with  a  mole  friend;  not  choosing  that  ,his  wife  should  entertain  such  guests  at  the  expeuce  of  his  . STYLE=superscript  hononr,  and  shunning  the  expence  of  a  legal  divorce,  he  took  the  fair  delinquent  to  Sutton  oil  Monday  last,  and  ex exposed  posed exposed  her  for  sale  in  the  public  street,  With  a  halter  rouud  her  neck.  The  gay  seducer  being  the  highest  bidder,  led  off  his  precious  bargain  in  triumph.  'rho  parties  are  all  residents  of  Billillittelaus.  P12_TB00014 F"
