text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  •  62  IMPERIAL  PARLIAMENT  .  HOUSE  OF  LORDS.  immopmenwp  TIVZSDA  Y,  JAW.  ID,  MOS.  This  dav  the  Rouse  of  Lords  met  pursuant  to  prorogation.  when  the  Lord  Chancellor,  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,  Lord  'Camden,  and  the  Duke  of  Moistrose  took  their  seats  its  their  robes  upon  the  Woolsack  as  his  Majesty's  Commissioners;  and  the  Speaker  and  the  Members  of  the  Mouse  of  COMMODS  being  in  af.-  tendauce,  the  Chancellor  delivered  the  followiug  Speech  from  his  Majesty  ;  IVI  v  LIMOS  AID  GENTLEKEW,  •  We  have  it  in  command  from  his  Majesty,  to  state  to  you,  that  bis  Majesty  ha's  called  riu  together,  in  .perfect  confidence  that  you  are  prepared  cordially  to  support  his  Majesty  in  the  proses  •  cation'  ars  war,  which  there  is  no  - STYLE=superscript  hope  of  terminating  safely  sad  honourably,  except  through  vigorous  and  persevering  ex exertiou.  ertiou. exertiou.  We  are  to  acquaint  you,  that  his  Majesty  has  directed  to  be  „laid  before  You,  Copies.of  the  Proposals  for  opening  a  Negocia Negociation,  tion, Negociation,  .which  were  transmitted  to  his  Majesty  from  Erfurth;  and  alba  Correspondence  which  thereupon  took  place  with  the  Go Governments  vernments Governments  of  Russia  and  of  France;  together  with  the  Declara Declaration  tion Declaration  issued  by  his  Majesty's  command  nn  the  termination  of  that  Correspondence.  His  Majesty  is  persuaded,  that  you  will  participate  is  the  feelings  %staid*  .  were  expressed  by  his  Majesty,.  when  it  was  re required  quired required  that  his  Majesty  should  consent  to  commence  the  Negocia-  tion,  by  abandoning  the  cause  of  Spain,  which  he  had  so  recently  and  solemnly  espoused.  We  are  commanded  , STYLE=superscript  to  inform  yois,  that  his  Majesty  continues  to  receive  from  the  Spanish  Government  the  strongest  assurances  of  their  determined  perseverance  in  the  cause  of  the  legitimate  Monarchy,  and  of  the  National  Independence  of  Spain;  and  to  assure  you,  that  so  long  as  the  people  of  Spain  shall  remain  true  to  themselves,  his  Majesty  will  continue  to  them  his  most  strenu strenuous  ous strenuous  assistance  and  support.  His  Majesty  has  renewed  to  the  Spanish  Nation,  in  the  mos  orient  of  its  dilicultie,s  and  reverses.  the  engagements  which  he  voluntarily  epotraeted  at  the  outset  of  its  struggle  against  the  usurpation  and  .tyraurt  . STYLE=superscript  y  of  France;  and  we  arc  commanded  to  acquaint  you,  that  these  engagements  have  been  reduced  into  the  form  of  a  Treaty  orAllience  ;  which  Treaty,  so  soon  as  the  ra ratifications  tifications ratifications  shall  have  .been  exchanged,  his  Majesty  will  cause  to  be  laid  before  you..  His  Majesty.  commands  us  tp  state  to  you.  that  while  his  Ma Majesty  jesty Majesty  contemplated  with  the_  liveliest  satisfaction  the  atchieve-  I  meets  of  his  forces  in  the  commencement  of  the  campaign  in  Portugal,  and  the  deliverance  otthe‘Kingdom  of  his  Ally  from  the  presence  and  oppressions  of  the  French  army,  his  Majesty  most  deeply  regeetted  the  citriiiinalion  . STYLE=superscript  of  that  campaign  by  an  'Armistice  awl  Colivention,  of  some  of  the  Articles  of  which  his  -- STYLE=superscript  Majesty  has  felt  himself  obliged  formally  to  declare  his  disappro disapprobation.  bation. disapprobation.  •  We  are  to  express  to  you  hil  Majesty's  reliance  on  your  dispo disposi.ion  si.ion disposi.ion  to  enable  his  Majesty  to  continue  the  aid  afforded  .  by  his  - STYLE=superscript  Majesty  to  the  King  of  Swedes.  That  Monarch  derives  a  pe peculiar  culiar peculiar  claim  to  his  Majesty's  support  in  the  present  exigency  of  his  affairs,  from  having  concurred  with  his  Majesty  in  the  pro propriety  priety propriety  of  rejecting  - STYLE=superscript  any  proptisal  for  Negotiation  to  which  the  .Govzrninent  of-Spain  was  not  to  be  admitted  as  a  party.  •  GY.NTIfEMEN  OF  THE  HOUSE  OF  COMMONS,  •  'We  are  commuuded  by  his  Majesty  to  inform'you,  that  he  has  .11-e,cte  , STYLE=superscript  l  :he  esti:mites  of  the  current  year  to  be  laid  before  you.  jesty  relies  upon  your  zeal  and  affection  to  make  such  fustier  provision  .of  supply  as  the  vigorous  prosecution  of  the  war  reader  necessary;  and  he  trusts  that  you  may  be  carded  to,  ILA  the  means  of  providing  such  Supply  without  any.  great.  O•i*  ialdiedillte  increase  of  the  existing  burthens  upon  bis  pop  p  If  is  majest.y  feels  assured  that  it  will  be  highly  satisfactory  to  yo  4  irvessist  s  -iiptuititstanding  the  measures  resorted  to  by  the  cm-  tay.  f*A  t  r,  e  pu  r  pose  of  d.siroying  the  commerce  and  resour.  oc.hts  Kipg  , STYLE=superscript  loin  g  --44te  public  revenue  bas  continued  in  a  course  at  progrei4  at  go  vement.  EstEm,  you  that  the  measure  adopted  by  for  establishing  a  Local  Militia,  It  h  the  happiest  success,  and  pro promanently  manently promanently  befieficial  io  the  country.  AO  commands  most  especially  to  y  weighing  the  immense  Interests  tAN:  gee  which  are  at  stake  in  the  war  now  carrying  on,  yogi  should  pros  'teed  with  es  little  delay  as  possible  to  consider  of  the  usibst-effet usibst-effettual  tual usibst-effettual  measures  for  the  augmentation  of  the  regular  army;  in  wee  that  his  Miijesty  may  be  the  better  enabled,  without  impairing  the  means  of  defence  at  home,  to  avail  himself  of  the  military  power  of  his  dominions  in  the  great  contest  in  which  he  is  en•  gaged;  and  to  conduct  that  contest,  under  the  blessing  of  Divine  Providence,  to  a  conclusion  cempatitable  with  the  honour:of  his.  Majesty's  Crown,  and  with  the  interests  of  his  Allies,  of  Europe,  and  of  the  world.  The  House  adjourned  till  five  o'clock,  when  the  Chancellor  resumed  the  woolsack,  and  his  Majesty's  speech  was  again  read.  The  Earl  of  BRIDGEWATER  rose  to  move  the  Address,  but  spoke  so  inaudibly  that.scarcely  a  sentence  could  be  beard.  His  Lordship  concluded  by  moving  the  Address;  which  as  usual  was  an  echo  of  the  speech.  Lord  SBLFFIELD  seconded  the  Address.  Earl  Sr.  VINcENT  said,  that  the  Address  just  read  was  such,  that  no  man  who  bad  a  veneration  for  his  Sovereign,  or  a  love  for  his  country,  could  ever  assent  to.  Whether  he  took  into  consideration  the  manner  in  ,  which  the  war  was  carried  on  in  Portugal,  or  the  way  in  which  our  troops  had  been  sent  there.  Transports  were  hired,  and  great  merit  was  to  be  attributed  to  the  ingenuity  of  Ministers  in  providing  these  transports.  lie  wished  to  notice  their  important  services,  46 STYLE=superscript  why,  truly,  they  were  at  last  employed  to  convey  the  rascally  ruffians  whom  Junot  commanded  to  that  part  of  France  which  was  nearest  the  boundaries  of  Spain.  So  that  these  devils  are  at  this  moment  harassing  the  rear  of  our  retreating  army.  The  impolicy  of  send sending  ing sending  British  troops  to  Portugal  he  always  disapproved;  but  the  result  of  the  star  there  he  was  disgusted  with.  In  fact,  continued  his  Lordship,  it  would  seem  as  if  Ministers  had  uot  even  a  geo geographic  graphic geographic  knowledge  of  the  country  through  which  they  were  to  pass,  But  their  ignorance  of  that  species  of  knowledge,  one  would  suppose  was  official;  for  a  Heaven-horn  Minis 'Minister,..'  just  after  he  first  came  into  power,  asked  whether  Port  Mahon  was  in  Europe  Of  not;  [we  can  but  barely  suppose  that  his  Lordship  meant  the  late  Mr:  Pitt],  and  the  persons  at  present  in  power  manifested  just  the  same  local  ignorance,  whets  they  sent  an  army  to  traverse  a  wild  and  inhospitable  country,  at  the  very  commencement  of  the  rainy  season,  to  drink  new  wines,  and  to  he  overwhelmed  with  disease  as  well  as  fatigue.  So  little  confidence  did  he  place  in  these  men,  that  he  was  of  the  decided  opinion,  that  unless  they  were  removed,  the  country  41,031  d  be  lost.  The  Convention  of  eintra  could  not  be  considered,  without  feeling  sentiments  of  alarm,  as  well  as  indignation.  There  was  a  time  when  such  old-fashioned  words  as  ••  Sink,  burn,  and  were  under understood  stood understood  and  exercised;  but  now  we  are  to  negociate  to  be  ships  husbands,  and  we  take  possession  by  bargain  and  barter,  instead  of  by  insoles,  by  bravery,  and  by  balls;  we  are  to  hold  in  ships  trust  by  contract,  and  not  in  right  by  conqoest-  - STYLE=superscript  (  Hear  s STYLE=superscript  !  Hear  1)  Whenever  he  heard  of  Councils  of  War  being  celled,  he  al always  ways always  considered  them  as  cloaks  for  cowardice.  At  Vimiera  we  gained  a  victory,  and  in  the  moment  that  our  soldiers  are  flushed  with  conquest,  recourse  is  had  to  a  Council  of.  War;  that,  be  presumed,  could  only  have  beery  necessary,  or  indeed  apologised  for,  in  the  moment  of  defeat.  The  same  opinion  he  entertained  of  the  Enquiry,—it  was  a  shield  to  ward  off  investigation  from  Mi Ministers  nisters Ministers  themselves;  but  he  trusted  that  their  Lordships  would  not  be  prevented  from  making  a  sertipuleas  investigation  of  it  in  their  own  way.  He  knew  the  character  of  the  Portuguese  exceed.  ingly  well;  they,  excepting  the  city.of  Lisbon,  were  as  brava  people  as  any  upon  the  Continent,  and,  officered  with  British  soldiers,  would  have  presented  an  undaunted  front  to  French  . STYLE=superscript  men.  Vhy  was  not  that  expedient  made  use  of?  Ministers  ought  to  have  known  their  value,  and  if  they  did  not,  their  ig ignorance  norance ignorance  was  inexcusable.  If  that  House  did  its  duty,  they  would  immediately  proceed  to  the  foot  of  the  throat,  and  there  tell  the  Sovereign  the  hold  truth,  that  if  he  does  not  remove  them  he  will  lose  the  country.  These  were  the  sentiments  of  his  heart;  he  spoke  them  as  a  solemn  duty,  which  he  found  himself  bound  to  express.  It  wits  probably  the  last  time  be  would  trouble  their  Lordships  on  the  suttject,  and  with  that,  said  the  Noble  Admiral,  I  wish  your  Lordships  good  night.—(At  these  last  words  the  Noble  Earl  instantly  walked  out  of  the  House).  Lord  SIDMOUTM  adverted  to  the  silence  which  the  Speech  observed  with  'respect  to  America.  Their  Lordships  were  calA  led  upon  to  agree  to  an  Address,  approving  of  a  treaty  :  but  be  hoped  that  nothing  so  inconsistent  would  be  imposed  upon  the  House,  there  was  no  treaty  with  Spain  before  them.  The  turn  which  the  war  took  in  Portugal  produced  general  dissa dissatisfaction,  tisfaction, dissatisfaction,  and  ahcwed  that  the  people  nem  would  place  coati.  P4_TB00009 y  43ENTLI  o‘infrin  r,  ••  •  tSIOII,  ,  4  1  07-4,  I STYLE=superscript  s STYLE=superscript  ici  'erw'e  s  . STYLE=superscript  .•  \  11 STYLE=superscript  1  1 STYLE=superscript  .  '41 STYLE=superscript  .  7 STYLE=superscript  ,  •  •s,  -  7  .  •  2  y  v•-•  :.,./to  •  '  -  ‘..  &amp;  ;  •1110  P4_TB00010 I  !+d  0"
