text
"'9B  TIIE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  suppose,  that,  after  the  most  spirited  resistance,  the  inhabitants  of  this  island  w  ere  forced  to  submit  to  a  foreign  usurper,  after  baying  been  deprived  of  their  present  Sovereign  by  an  unparal unparalleled  leled unparalleled  act  of  outrage  and  perfidy,  is  any  man  base  or  extravagant  enough  as  to  imagine  they  could  be  prevailed  on,  by  force  or  persuasion,  to  submit  to  the  usurpation.  The  supposition  is  so  moostrousoo  revolting,  that  we  feel  a  glow  of  indignation  in  making  it.  The  same  repugnance  is  common  to  all  nations  ;  and  however  great  the  defl.cts  of  their  government  may  be,  their  antipathy  to  the  yoke  of  a  foreigner,  imposed  at  the  point  of  the  bayonet,  is  inextinguishable.  As  soon  as  we  assent  to  the  foregoing  facts,  our  futiqw  policy  is  obvious.  If  it  be  adhered  to,  the  subjugation  oidipailh  is  im impossible.  possible. impossible.  Should  the  tyrant  even  plant  his  Eagles  WR  the  towers:  of  Lisbon,  and  on  the  walls  of  Cadiz,  Saragossa,  Seville,  and  Valencia,  his  sovereignty  over  the  country  is  as  precarious  as  it  had  been  six  months  ago.  Ilowe‘er,  if  our  Government  has  a  tparticle  of  energy  left,  this  calamity  may  he  averted.  .But  the  misconduct  and  weakness  of  Ministers  have  been  so  very  glaring,  .that  we  are  afraid  of  recommending  measures  more  consonant  to  our  wishes  and  the  resources  of  the  empire.  As  we  despair  of  - STYLE=superscript  great  or  edicacious  exertions  on  their  part,  we  will  confine  ourselves  to  a  line  of  policy  more  conformable  to  their  capacity  and  the  conduct  they  have  hitherto  pursued.  A  Bun  Let  OH  or  a  CHATH  Am,  we  know  full  well,  would  manage  our  affairs  in  a  different  manner;  and  under  the  guidance  of  their  genius,  eighty  thousand  British  soldier;,  at  the  foot  of  the  Sierra  Morena,  would  give  BONAPA  RTC  some  occupation,  and  force  him  to  fitht  many  a  hard  blttle,  before  he  should  be  able  to  plant  his  Eagles  on  a  village  steeple  to  the  south  of  those  mountains.  But  our  modern  statesmen  arc  not  of  that  fighting  disposition;  and  with  an  army  of  two  hundred  and  twenty  thousand  of  the  hest  soldiers  in  the  universe,  and  the  immen  , STYLE=superscript  e  sum  of  seventy  millions  sterling  at  their  disposal,  they  vaunt  their  services  and  energy,  for  having  sent  a  sixth  part  of  our  force,  when  the  battle  of  Spain  was  almost  over,  to  contend  against  the  undivided  str.ngth  of  the  enemy.  We  will  not  touch  longer  on  that  grating  string;  and  as  their  exertions  appear  to  be  confined  to  that  unanspicions  trial  of  their  energy,  we  ill  now  consider  what  ought  to  be  done,  should  Bo  NA  PA  ttzu  succeed  iu  overrunning  the  Southern  departments  Though  Ministers  may  feel  a  disinclination  to  give  us  another  specimen  of  their  energy  and  foresight,  by  sending  another  army  directly  to  Spain,  we  trust  their  efforts  win  not  be  confined  to  the  late  ill-fated  expedition.  They  may  not  be  very  splendid  tacticians,  nor  possess  much  topographical  knowledge,  either  in  a  military,  or  any  other  view  ;  but  they  will  not  have  the  courage  to  appear  before  the  bar  of  their  country,  and  say,  we  have  made  a  proper  use  of  its  resources  and  confidence,  and  have  performed  every  thing  which  could  he  done  to  assist  the  Spaniards  effectually.  They  promise  and  bluster  much,  it  is  true;  and  formidable  expeditions  are  every  day  orderc,l  to  sail  for  Cadiz,  or  some  other  port  in  the  South.  There  are  few  instances  of  braggarts;  who  perform  much  ;  and  if  serious  wishes  were  entertained  to  make  a  diversion  in  favour  of  the  `:paniards  of  the  South,  we  really  fear  that  our  expedition  may  arrive,  at  the  very  montent  Bo  N.IPA  KT  had  succeeded  in  dis  persing  the  last  army  of  the  l'atri  , STYLE=superscript  it  s.  We  arc,  therefore,  afraid  rif  their  activity,*  and  tremble  at  the  consequences  of  their  inter interference.  ference. interference.  But  something  must  he  done  to  save  the  honour  of  the  country,  and  if  they  are  incapable  of  rendering  positive,  Jet  them  give  a  kind  of  negative  assistance.  They  cannot  complain  of  scarcity  of  shipping.  Flying  squadrons  should  therefore  be  immediately  detached  to  the  coat-ts  of  the  Atlantic  aryl  MelPterrancan,  with  stores,  arms,  soldiers,  and  xnoney.  Through  the  medium  of  active  agents,  it  vt  ill  be  easy  to  Keep  up  on  inees,ant  connon&amp;cation  With  the  maritime  pro-  Ninces  under  the  controul  of  the  enemy  :  and  every  facility  granted  to  the  di*coutented,  who  arc  the  great  majority  of  the  FEB  12.  male  population,  to  abandon  ihe  country.  Thee  men  should  be  immediately  sent  to  the  Balearic  Islam's,  and  organised  and  equipped  as  expeditiously  as  possible.  By  means  of  partial  de descents,  scents, descents,  and  overpowering  small  posts  of  the  enemy  the  confidence  of  the  inhabitants,  and  their  opinion  of  our  energy,  may  be  still  kept  alive.  If  this  simple  systeM  of  warfare  and  alarm  be  ad adhered  hered adhered  to,  we  may  pour  in,  when  the  invaders  are  least  aware  of  it,  an  , STYLE=superscript  :ther  force  of  an  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  Spanish  exiles,  in  the  highest  state  of  discipline,  and  burning  with  vengeance  against  the  usurpers  of  their  property  and  soil.  —  All  we  apprehend,  is  some  South  American  bubble;  and  that  Ministers  may  have  formed  the  ill-fated  project  of  trans transporting  porting transporting  the  Patriots  beyond  the  Atlantic.  For  Heaven's  sake,  let  the  fatal  idea  be  immediately  abandoned  ;  and  let  the  whole  mass  of  the  Spanish  and  Portuguese  exiles  be  collected  in  convenient  places  of  arms,  as  contiguous  as  possible  to  the  Spauish  coast.  Every  day  will  a-ncrease  their  numbers,  ai  d  their  horror  of  the  enemy.  If  we  are  active  and  persevering,  and  know  how  to  make  a  proper  use  of  the  rooted  antipathy  of  the  natives,  and  neglect  no  opportunity  of  fomenting  their  aversion,  we  may,  admitting  even  the  possibility  of  the  Ty Tyrant's  rant's Tyrant's  overwhelming  the  present  spirit  of  resistance  in  the  South,  still  tear  from  his  grasp,  by  means  of  a  formidable  Spanish  army,  tho  possession  of  a  country  he  can  never  reconcile  to  his  usurpation.  NOTICES  OF  ALTY.  When  the  bright  future  ST  AR  or  EN  01,  A  N  D'S  TIIRONE,  magic  smile,  hath  o'er  the  banquet  Winning  respect,  nor  claiming  hat  he  won,  But  tempering  goodness;  like  an  evening  sun,  Whose  light  the  eye  eau  tranquilly  admire,  Gloriums  but  mild,  all  Ailtness  )et  ail  fire  .Mourc's  Epistle  to  the  Lady  Charlotte  Ramlon."
