text
"IiFTE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  DISTILLERIES.  Lord  D  TtxtEir  said,  he  rose  to  call  their  Lordships  attention  to  a  subject  of  the  greatest  importance  to  the  interests  both  of  this  part  of  the  United  Kingdom  and  Ireland.  He  observed,  by  the  votes  of  the  llouse  of  Commons,  that  a  Bill  was  in  progress  there  for  permitting  Distillation  from  Grain  in  Ireland,  and  it  was  probable  that  that  Bill  might  soon  come  under  their  consi consideration.  deration. consideration.  Had  the  Nob:e  Secretary  of  State  (Lord  Liverpool)  been  in  the  House,  he  should  have  moved  for  some  papers  con-  nected  with  this  subject;  hut  as  that  Noble  Lord  wais  a'bsent,  he  should  postpone  hisination  to  another  day.  In  the  mean  time  •  he  thought  it  right  to  notice  thus  early  a  matter  of  so  much  con consequence  sequence consequence  to  the  vital  interests  of  the  country,  and  to  state,  that  he  Bill  should  experience  his  decided  opposition,  if  it  was  not  arrested  in  its  progress  in  another  quarter.—Adjourned.  Tuesday,  Feb.  28.  Some  private  Bills  went  through  their  respective  stages,  aid  the  !louse  adjourned.  Wednesday,  March  1.  Their  Lordships  were  engaged  till  a  late  periodic)  the  evening,  hearing  arguments  of  Counsel  on  a  Writ  of  Error,  Pemberton  v.  Oakes,  the  further  consideration  of  which  was  postponed  to  a  future  day  .—Adj  ou  rned  .  Thursday,  March  2.  The  Irish  Militia  Enlistment  Bill  was  read  a  third  time  and  passed.  The  Earl  of  Livaaroor.  presented  part  of  the  C►►rrespon C►►rrespondenee  denee C►►rrespondenee  respecting  Spaiu,  which  had  been  moved  for,  eonsistio  of  the  instructions  sent  out.  The  rest  of  the  Correspondence,  his  Lordship  said,  would  be  laid  before  the  House  with  all  pm-  Bible  speed.  The  Papers  were  ordered  to  be  priatedo—Ad priatedo—Adjourned.  journed. priatedo—Adjourned.  Friday,  March  3.  TOUTVGALL.  The  Earl  of  BUCKlNGliAmsminn  said  the  unfortunate  result  of  the  campaign  in  Portnal  and  Spain  produced  matter  of  re regret  gret regret  to  every  man  who  had  the  happiness  of  society  at  heart.  These  campaigns,  he  lamented  to  say,  were  ended  in  a  way  which  at  only  deeply  afflicted  every  Egglish  bosom,  but  cir circumstances  cumstances circumstances  existed  which  induced  him  to  think,  that,  valuable  as  NO  (*auction  of  Portugal  is  to  tbis  country,  still  it"
