text
"PRINCESS  AUGUSTA.  Spanish  b.rovin  velvet  petticoat  richly  embroidered  with  gold,  a  wreath  of  e'  °old  laurel  round  the  bottom;  sashes  of  brown  and  gold  velvet  thrown  across  the  petticoat,  bordered  with  wreaths  of  laurel  And  berries  on  the  left  side;  the  drapery  bordered  with  a  rich  Grecian  filligree  of  dead  and  bright  gold  tied  up  with  rich  gold  cords  and  tassels;  body  and  train  of  brown  and  gold  velvet.  The  effect  of  this  dress  was  inebt  beautiful.  PRINCESS  ELIZABETH.  A  scarlet  velvet  petticoat,  the  bottom  richly  embroidered  in  shell  of  matted  gold  and  brilliant  Algerine  spangles.  night  . STYLE=superscript  side  drapery  of  gold  beeded  net,  with  a  rich  tassel  fringe;  left  side  of  point  of  scarlet  velvet  and  gold  tissue,  with  a  rich  embroidery  of  shells  in  gold.  The  drapery  suspended  by  diamonds  . STYLE=superscript  :  Train  of  gold  and  scarlet  tissue,  trimmed  witbgold  to  correspond  with  the  petticoat.  Headdress  of  diarnondsand  feathers.  This  dress  was  much  admired  tor  taste  and  elegance.  rRINCESS  MARY.  A  magnificent  dress  of  Spanish  brown  velvet,  embroidered  with  gold  in  octagons,  forming  the  ground-work  of  the  dress,  and  spotted  all  over  with  gold  foil  cockle,shells.  A  dra drapery,  pery, drapery,  in  a  semi-circular  direction,  composed  the  right  aide  of  the  dress,  of  gold  velvet  tissue,  with  a  rich  border  of  cockle  shells  in  dead  and  bright  foil,  forming  points  and  supporting  Jorge  branches  of  foil  leaves,  Rte.  Six  smaller  draperies  taste tastefully  fully tastefully  placed  one  above  another,  embroidered  in  scollops,  and  stripes  of  spangles  forming  shells,  relieved  the  eye  from  the  tuns tunssy  sy tunssy  borders  of  the  correspondent  draperies,  and  had  an  elegant  effect.  The  left  side,  small  scollop-shell  draperies,  tied  by  a  '.l4oug  sash  and  end;  the  bottom  a  broad  border  of  foil  in  din dinmpads,  mpads, dinmpads,  embroidered  with  bullion,  and  terminated  by  a  spangled  fringe,  Robe,  brown  and  gold  velvet  tissue,  trimmed  with  gold  point  ►ace  and  diamonds.  PRINCESS  SOPNIA.  Scarlet  cloth  petticoat,  richly  enshroidereallsaddt  ontatuatt.  Id  with  cords  and  tassels;  train  and  body  of  the  same.  P12_TB00020 I  #  P12_TB00021 '4  P12_TB00022"
