text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  P  25  midated  by  these  appearances,  immediately  dispatched  General  Vincent  to  discover  the  object  of  the  meeting  at  Erfurt,  and  to  avert  the  impending  storm.  For  the  latter  purpose  he  was  probably  vested  with  authority  by  his  deluded  Cabinet,  to  make  concessions,  and  offer  sureties  f:sr  keeping  the  peace.  Un Unfortunate  fortunate Unfortunate  delusion  !  Besotted  governments  !  The  resistance  of  the  Spaniards,  with  its  train  of  popular  ideas  and  feelinzs,  was  more  momentous  in  his  ()pillion,  n  I  more  formidable  .to  the  wary,  plausible,  designing,  and  intelligent  tyrant,  than  a  con confederacy  federacy confederacy  of  all  the  Cabinets  of  the  Continent.  In  order  to  complete  the  last  act  of  this  eventful  farce,  he  dispatch  ed  Messen Messengers  gers Messengers  of  Peace  to  our  Government  !  But  his  object  was  now  at attained,  tained, attained,  and  the  great  slight  of  hand  man  having  amused  and  confounded  for  a  time  the  spectators  by  his  masterly  dexterity,  did  not  even  condescend  to  wait  a-single  day  to  see  what  effect  it  might  produce  on  our  intelligent  Ministers.  They  had  also  the  honour  of  being  most  egregiously  entertained  and  duped  !  Thus  an  unexpected  respite  was  granted  to  Spain;  and  s  tor  e  simpletons  in  this  country  ministerial  and  anti-ministerial,  un unable  able unable  to  account  for  the  uncommon  inactivity  of  Bonaparte,  and  the  mystery  in  which  his  designs  were  conce4led,  solemnly  as  sured  he  would  not  prosecute  the  war  against  the  Spaniards;  hut  would  leave  them  to  themselves,  in  order  not  to  irritate  them  with  resistance;  and  then  turn  his  whole  strength  against  the  house  of  Austria.  Ah  !  the  cunning  rogues!  It  is  a  pity  so  much  discernment  and  judicious  observation  should  have  been  baffled  by  occurrences.  Did  our  Ministers  display  the  same  pe penetration  netration penetration  ?  Did  these  great  and  intelligent  statesmen,  by  means  of  their  emissaries,  or  by  intuition,  discover  the  same  import important  ant important  secret?  Yes,  they  did;  and  in  order  to  prevent  JUNOT,  at  least,  from  escaping  across  the  Pyrenees,  and  to  give  Austria  some  opinion  of  our  vigour  and  friendship,  detached  Sir  AR ARTHUR  THUR ARTHUR  WEL  LESLEY  to  take  that  gentleman  and  his  party  pri prisoner,.;  soner,.; prisoner,.;  that  they  Height  not  also  assist  one  day  in  overwhelming  Austria.  Extravagant  as  this  idea  may  appear,  we  can  acsign  no  oth  r  reason  fur  the  conduct  our  Government  displayed  during  that  propitious  interval.  Instead  of  landing,  as  near  as  possible,  to  the  scene  of  action,  a  sufficient  army  to  dislodge  the  enemy  froto  the  Ebro,  instead  of  securing  Pampeluna  and  Barcelona.  and  thus  oppose  almost  insurmountable  obstacles  to  au  invading  ene enemy,  my, enemy,  they  sent  Sir  ARTHUR,  W  I.  EIL  EY  on-  a  wild  goose  chase  to  Portugal,  where  he  fell  in,  however,  with  a  fox;  awl,  with  a  modesty  peculiar  to  trauscendant  merit,  instead  of  consulting  their  own  judgment  on  the  most  expedient  means  of  carrying  otr  the  war  with  vigour  and  success,  apply  for  information  and  ad advice  vice advice  to  a  Junta  composed  of  ignorant,  at  least  inexpeAenced„  men,  residing  in  a  remote  corner  of  the  Peninsula!  Admirable  Politicians!—incomparable  modesty  !  How  deplorable  and  mortifying  it  is  that  so  much  virtue  and  genius  should  have  been  so  cruelly  disappointed.  These  were  partly  the  cause  of  the  re..  vernes  of  the  Spaniards.  Want  of  plan  awl  fixed  object  on  our  part,  ignorance  of  the  real  res:nirces,  character  and  numbers  of  the  enemy,  a  vacillating,  puerile,  contemptible  policy,  marked  '  all  their  measures  since  the  commencement  of  our  alliance  with  Spain;  and  nothing  was  performed,  worthy  of  this  country,  her  army,  her  navy,  and  almost  inexhatoible  pecuniary  resourtes.  The  fortunes  of  Spain,  of  Great  Britain,  of  the  universe,  were  confided  to  very  weak  and  very  incompetent  haudit.  The  pro propitious  pitious propitious  opportunity  tvas  disregarded;  and  the  cheering  shouts  of  freedom,  wafted  along  the  shores  of  the  Atlantic  and  so  congenial  to  the  feelings  of  Englishmen,  were  stifled  and  deadened  in  the  damp,  unfeeling,  unresponsive  breasts  of  our  Ministers.  INTERCEPTED  CORRESPOND-ENCE..  SARAGOSSA,  Dt:c.  31.—Our  Gazette  of  this  day  contains  copies  of  several  letteri,  fottml  among  di‘patches  addressed  to.  Boottparte,  arid  intercepted  oa  their  way  frost►  Parit  to  his  head— headquarters.  quarters. headquarters."
