text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  FEB.  I  FOREIGN  INTELLIGENCE.  TIIE  THIRTY-FIRST  BULLETIN  OF  THE  ARMY  OF  SPAIN.  The  English  regiments  bearing  the  numbers  42,  50,  and  52,  have  been  entirely  destroyed  in  the  battle  of  the  16th,  near  Co Coimam.  imam. Coimam.  Not  60  men  of  each  of  these  corps  embarked.  The  Ge Geacrid  acrid Geacrid  in  Chief,  Moore,  has  been  killed  in  attempting  to  charge  at  the  head  of  this  brigade,  with  the  view  of  restoring  the  fortune  of  the  day.  Fruitless  efforts.  This  troop  was  dispersed,  and  its  General  slain  in  the  midst  of  it.  General  3aaird  had  been  already  Wounded.  lie  passed  through  Corunna  to  get  on  hoard  his  ;:hip,  and  did  not  get  his  wound  dressed  till  he  got  on  hoard  ;  it  is  re reported  ported reported  that  he  died  on  the  19th.  After  the  battle  of  the  16th,  a  dreadful  night  passed  at  Corunna.—The  English  entered  in  confu confusion  sion confusion  and  consternation.  The  English  army  had  landed  more  than  BO  pieces  of  cannon  ;  only  12  were STYLE=superscript  re-embarked  :  the  remainder  has  been  taken  or  lost  ;  and  by  a  return  made,  we  find  ourselves  in  possession  of  60  pieces  of  English  cannon.  Independent  or  two  millions  of  treasure  the  army  has  taken  from  the  English,  it  appears  that  a  treasure  inure  considerable  has  been  cast  away  among  the  rocks  and  precipices  which  border  the  road  from  A•i A•i-torga  torga A•i-torga  to  Corunna.  The  peasants  and  the  soldiers  have  ccallected  a  great  quantity  of  silver  among  the  rocks.  In  the  engagements  'which  took  place  during  the  retreat,  and  prior  to  the  battle  of  Corunna,  two  English  Generals  were  killed,  and  three  wounded.  General  Crawford  is  named  among  the  last.  The  English  have  lost  every  thing  that  constitutes  an  army—Generals,  artillery,  horses,  baggage,  ammunition,  magazines.  On  the  17th,  at  day daybreak,  break, daybreak,  we  were  masters  of  the  heights  that  command  the  road  to  Corunna,  and  the  batteries  were  playing  upon  the  English  con convoy.  voy. convoy.  The  result  was,  that  many  of  the  ships  were  unable  to  get  out,  and  were  taken  at  the  capitulation  of  Corunna.  Five  hun hundred  dred hundred  English  horses  were  also  taken  still  alive,  16,000  muskets,  and  a  great  deal  of  battering  cannon,  abandoned  by  the  enemy.  A  great  number  of  magazines  are  full  of  preserved  provisions  (munition  confectiones),  which  the  English  wished  to  carry  oil,  but  were  obliged  to  leave  behind.  A  powder  magazine,  contain containing  ing containing  200,0001b5.  weight  of  powder,  has  also  fallen  into  our  hands.  The  English,  surprised  by  the  issue  of  the  battle  of  the  16th,  have  not  even  had  time  to  destroy  their  magazines.  There  were  300  English  sick  in  the  Hospital.  We  found  in  the  port  seven  English  ships—three  loaded  with  horses,  and  four  with  troops.  They  could  not  get  out.  The  fortress  of  Corunna  is  of  an  e  xtent  which  secures  it  from  a  coup  de  main.  It  was  therefore  impossible  to  enter  it  before  the  20th,  in  virtue  of  the  annexed  capitulation.  In  Corunna  we  found  above  200  pieces  of  Spanish  cannon.  The  French  Consul  Fourcroy,  the  General  Ouesnel,  and  his  Staff;  M.  Bougars,  Officer  of  Ordnance;  M.  Taboureau,  Auditor;  and  3.50  French  soldiers  or  seamen,  who  had  been  made  prisoners  either  in  Portugal  or  on  board  the  ship  Atlas,  have  been  delivered  up.  They  express  great  Satisfaction  at  the  conduct  of  the  Officers  of  the  Spanish  Navy.  The  English  will  have  gained  by  their  expedition  the  hatred  of  the  Spaniards,  shame,  and  dishonour.  The  flower  of  their  army,  composed  of  Scotchmen,  has  been  either  wounded,  killed,  or  taken.  General  Franceschi  has  entered  St.  Jago  de  Compostella,  where  he  found  some  magazines  and  an  English  guard,  which  he  took.  He  marched  immediately  upon  Vigo,  Romana  appeared  to  Nave  taken  this  route  with  2500  men,  all  that  he  could  rally.  The  divkion  of  Mermet  marched  on  Verrol.  The  air  about  Corunna  is  infected  by  the  carcases  of  1200  horses,  whom  the  English  killed  in  the  streets.  The  first  care  of  the  Duke  of  Dalmatia  has  been  to  provide  for  the  restoration  of  salubrity,  equally  important  to  the  soldiers-  and  the  inhabitants.  General  Alzedo,  Governor  of  Corunna,  appears  to  have  taken  part  for  the  insurgents  only  from  the  constraint  of  force.  lle  took  the  oath  of  fidelity  to  King.loseph  Napoleon  with  enthusiasm.  The  people  manifest  the  joy  they  feel  at  being  delivered  from  the  English.  IMPERIAL  PARLIAMENT.  IIOUSE  OF  LORDS.  'Monday,  Feb.  13.  Sir  George  Brograve's  Divorce  Bill  was  read  for  the  firs  time.  Thursday,  Feb.  16.  The  Duke  of  GLOUCESTER,  presented  a  Petition  from  the  Debtors  confined  in  the  King's  Bench  isou,  praying  relief."
