text
"THE  gATIONAL  REGISTER.  4  1Z  coutd  che  proved  did  not  rest  on  sttelei  , STYLE=superscript  ..nt  ground  t.,  lea''  I.)  Il  i  •  punishment  nfinir  presto's  who  reany  !rid  the  dispo-al  of  otra  0-.  The  Right  Hun.  Cienticroatt  said,  Gentlemen  might  lati:,;it,  but  he  considered  the  subject  in  t-  set  ioi-s  a  point  of  view  to  partake  of  their  merriment.  lie  conceived  it  poi  rly  inadvisable  and  inexpedient,  at  a  moment  like  the  rreent,  to  set  on  foot  no  inquiry  so  indefinite  in  its  object  as  that  proposed  by  the  Noble  Lord.  The  motion  of  the  N  Lord  v.oulit  not  lead  to  the  conviction  of  any  offender  whom  the  Ifooie  would  feel  itsc'  f  caltt  i  upon  to  punish.  It  would  be  :i  deviatitot  from  the  ordinary  course  of  Parliamentary  pr.r-eedings,  be because  cause because  there  n;.s  nothing  speci•c  in  its  object  ;  ntld  1101)41)11e  advantage  could  be  expectedliorn  it,  but  touch  public  inconve inconvenience  nience inconvenience  would  arise  out  of  it.  Lord  Anu  ittuALu  llAttlvros  •  supported  the  motion.  Lord  FOLKCiTONE  said,  he  could  not  permit  the  arguments  of  the  Chancellor  of  the'  Excheqeuer  to  pass  without  oue  or  two  ob;ervations.  If  the  Right  lion.  Gentinnan  %I  - STYLE=superscript  a  , STYLE=superscript  :  of  opinioa  that  abuses  did  not  exist,  he  should  support  his  motion  for  the  appointment  of  a  Committee,  bec;:use,  if  they  Jo  not,  it  wt  old  relieve  the  public  mind,  who  thick  other.%  ise,  and  prove  074  they  do  not  ;  and  if  it  wt.:l.!!  proved  that  they  do  exist.  k  would  relieve  the  public  mio  4 STYLE=superscript  to  se-  that  steps  were  taken  Se  punish  Or  offenders.  The  Noble  Lord  coiwialed  with  observing,  h:tt  if  or  thing  could  raise  the  mind  to  a  dangerous  ferment,  it  woulA  be  tle  opposition  of  the  Chancelltr;  of  the  Exchequer  to  ids  pr  'position,  w  ho  was  hiatself  . STYLE=superscript  the  friend  and  associate  of  the  perst  suspected,  and,  in  his  beli..f  guilty  of  .gross  maker makerntions  ntions makerntions  and  corruptions  in  their  public  employments.  Lord  irEN  Ft  Y  PETTY  differed  front  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  as  to  his  view  of  the  subject,  hut  could  not  support  the  motion  of  the  Noble  Lord,  unless  there  was  some  more  soeciti  , STYLE=superscript  Ernund  wade  nut  than  he  hal  allekr,eil.  He  con:[  lered  motion  as  100  general,  and  that  03  COMM  . STYLE=superscript  !.  tee  shou'd  be  et:-•  trusted-  with  such  large  powers.  He  would  ieel  disposed  to  stip stipport  port stipport  the  Noble  Lord  on  any  motion  for  an  enquiry,  which  w;.s  rounded  on  any  special  allegation,  and  particularly  so  in  the  present  state  of  the  public  mind.,  when  he  thought  something  ought  to  be  done  to  satisfy  the  public.  But  he  was  an  enemy  to  ,general  inquiries,  because  he  never  knew  an  instance  where  they  produced  any  practical  benefits.  Mr.  WitiTnntan  believed  the  general  feeling  out  of  doors  was,  that  if  such  a  Committee  were  appointed.  a  vast  va variety  riety variety  of  corrupt  practices  would  be  brought  to  light.  The  Bill  introduced  by  the  Right  Honourable  Gentleman  he  thought  not  likely  to  meet  all  these  abuses  that  were  in  existence.  ant  therefore  there  was  a  necessity  for  further  inquiry.  If  the'  delinquents  could  not  be  punished  by-law,  let  them  be  punish punished  ed punished  as  others  had  been,  by  the  contempt  and  execration  of  their  country,  (Hear,  hear  !  )  lie  coneeiveti  it  peculiarly  proper,  while  fhe  public  mind  was  in  such  a  stare  of  aOtation  a-  it  was  in  at  present,  to  apprdnt  a  Committee  of  twent  -one  pet  WM,  with  such  powers  as  the  Noble  Lord  had  proposed.  Utley  e  ould  not  be  accusers,  but  would  have  to  lay  before  the  Hawse  suet  material*  as  came  before  them,  upon  which  the  House  woul  I  afterwards  have  to  form  a  ,indgineet.  The  Hoe.  Me.i,!)er  con concluded.w  cluded.w concluded.w  ith  expreosing  his  hearty  concurrence  in  the  Motion  of  the  Noble  Lord.  Mr.  Secretary  CANNING  thought  it  impolitic  in  Any  state  of.  the  public  mind  to  excite  in  it  expectations,  let  .the  consequence  be  what  it  may,  where  there  was  no  prospect  of  their  being  realized.  Indeed,  it  would  he  impossible  for  him  consistently  with  what  he  felt  to  he  his  duty,  and  the  duty  of  every  man  who  valued  the  form  of  the  kovernment  of  this  country  as  it  now  stood.  not  to  give  this  Motion  his  desidcd  negative.  In  opposing  it,  he  felt  it  necessary,  however,  to  state,  that  he  was  not  opposing  specific  i.  quiry  into  spe specific  cific specific  abuse,  but  that  it  was  the  specific  moti,,a  before  them  which  he  deprecated.  Ills  opposition  to  the  one,  did  INA  imply  objection  to  the  other.  Ili,  Right  llooourable  Friend  was  represented  (hut  he  was  sure  it  was  unintentional)  to  have  , STYLE=superscript  thrown  something  like  a  screen  over  particular  abuses,  by  apply applying  ing applying  a  remedy  in  a  legislative  form  to  certain  illegal  and  corrupt  practices  that  had  been  proved  to  exit.  There  were  remedies  able  and  sufficient  to  check  the  progress  of  abuses,  when  they  are  under  the  consideration  of  Parliament  consequently  he  did  not  conceive  it  to  be  the  duty  of  the  House  to  apply  new  remedies,  if  old  ones  were  able  to  remove  the  evils  of  which  the  Noble  Lord  complained.  Was  it  to  the  discussion  of  the  whole  syStem  of  the  constitution—the  conduct  of  the  men  w  •  •  bad  filled  the  administration  of  Government  for  the  last  centui.,  ,  and  the  measures  which  characterised  their  career—that  he  '  v%ould  direct  the  attention  of  this;  Committee  ?  imputations  P5_TB00014 I"
