text
"JAN.  21.  with  complete  success.  In  this  awful  and  interesting  state  he  haft  but  one  wish  remaining,  a  wish  which  every  individual  in  the  British  Empire  would  he  most  eager  and  anxious  to  fulfil  ;  it  sans,  that  the  service  he  had  performed  might  be  acknow acknowledged,  ledged, acknowledged,  and  marked  with  the  approbation  of  his  country.  If  he  had  not  been  able  to  accomplish  all  that  was  expected  ;  if  he  was  not  able  to  achieve  the  arduous  task  cif  rescuing  Spain  from  the  Tyrant's  grasp,  the  blame  was  not  his---(ioud  and  incessant  cry  of  hear,  hear,  from  the  Opposition).  Whether  the  extent  the  difficulties  to  he  surmounted,  or  the  manner  in  which  it  was  executed,  were  considered,  his  march  into  Spain  would  ever  rank  as  one  of  the  first  displays  of  military  skill  and  excellent  •  disposition.  It  was  not  for  want  of  transports  that  he  deter determined  mined determined  to  march  into  Spain  by  land,  but  as  best  calculated  for  military  effect.  No  doubt  could  possibly  be  entertained  of  the  propriety  of  this  step,  for  if  the  army  had  been  assembled,  (by  sea)  in  Gallicia,  it  must  have  been  destroyed  to  all  intents  and  purposes,  and  rendered  unfit  for  service,  from  the  barrenness  of  the  country  and  the  want  of  every  necessary  resource.  When  the  junction  had  been  formed  ith  the  other  division  of  the  Bri Britisu  tisu Britisu  force,  Sir  John  Moore  learned  the  fate  of  the  allied  armies  with  w  hich  it  was  intended  he  should  have  co-operated.  He  was  now  convinced  that  it  was  impossible  for  him  to  stand  singly  against  •  the  imruense  power  of  France,  and  relinquishing  every  idea  of  so  fruitless  and  dangerous  a  resolution,  he  determined  to  run  the  risk  of  making  a  powerful  diversion  in  favour  of  the  Spanish  force  in  the  south,  and  taking  the  chalice  of  attack attacking  ing attacking  Soult.  As  far  as  the  first  part  of  this  plan  was  concerned  he  was  eminently  successful.  With  regard  to  the  latter  part  ;  al although  though although  disappointed  in  his  design  of  attacking  the'enemy,  under  Soult,  yet  Providence  gave  him  an  opportunity  of  leaving  to  the  army  an  example  of  the  greatest  military  talents.  At  Cornana,  he  had  at  length  the  satisfaction  of  being  able  to  meet  and  to  defeat  an  enemy  his  superior  in  every  respect  but  in  bravery,  discipline,,  and  determined  resolution.  When  the  movements  of  an  army  are  so  rapid  as  those  of  ours  necessarily  were,  the  retreating  army  are  compelled  to  leave  behind  them  all  those  who  are  too  weak  to  maintain  the  exertions  required  for  the  celerity  of  the  much,  while  the  enemy  on  theother  hand  follows,  with  the  most  strong  and  athletic  of  his  forces.  It  was  thus  not  a  trial  of  courage  but  of  physical  strength.  If,  after  all  this,  an  army  could  completely  defeat,  and  embark  in  the  presence  of  a  superior  force,  which  they  had  heat  the  day  before  ;  if  their  embitrka-,  tion  was  so  complete,  that  net  a  single  wounded  man,  not  a  single  piece  of  artillery,  or  an  article  of  the  capture  of  which  the  enemy  could  boast,  were  left;  it  was  impossible  to  deny,  that  such  an  atehievement  ranked  with-  the  most  glorious  that  ever  adorned  the  British  name.  A  more  splendid  movement  of  combined  naval  and  military  means  never  was  witnessed.  I  t  justified  Government  of  making  use  of  these  two  strong  arms  for  the  salvation  of  the  oppressed  world.  The  Noble  I.ocd  con concluded  cluded concluded  with  maving,  that  an  humble  Address  be  presented  to  his  Majesty,  that  his  Majesty  should  be  graciously  pleased  to  order  a  monument  to  be  erected  in  gratitude  to  the  memory  of  Lieute Lieutenant-General  nant-General Lieutenant-General  Sir  John  Moore,  K.  B.  in  the  Cathedral  Church  of  St.  Paul's,  who,  after  having  spent  an  honourable  and  merito meritorious  rious meritorious  life  in  the  service  of  his  country,  fell,  deeply  lamented,  on  the  16th  of  January,  1809,  at  Corunna,  where  he  defeated  a  very  superior  French  army,  and  established  the  glory  of  the  British  military  character.  The  question  was  now  put  by  the  Speaker,  and  carried  unani unanivanish  vanish unanivanish  .  Lord  CASTLEREAGH  then  moved  the  Thanks  of  the  House  to  Lieut.-Generals  Sir  D.  Baird,  Hope,  M‘tienzie,  Frazer,  Lord  w  .  Bentmck,  R.  Paget,  amid  Major-Generals  Beresford,  Come,  Manningham,  Hill,  Ward,  Leigh,  H.  Fane,  Disney,  and  Slade,  hich  was  also  carried  unanimously.  Thanks  were  then  voted  to  the  Officers,  Non-commissioned  Officers.,  and  Soldiers,  for  their  bravery  and  resolution  displayed  by  them  at  the  battle  of  Corunna.  Lord  CASTLERFAGH  observed,  that  as  a  great  part  of  the  success  attending  the  embarkation  of  the  troops  was  owing  to  the  exertions  of  the  Navy,  he  hoped  the  House  would  agree  with  him  in  a  vote  of  thanks  to  Admiral  De  Courcy  and  Sir  S.  Hood,  with  the  Officers-and  !ten  under  their  command,  which  was  ac accordingly  cordingly accordingly  agreed  to.  THANRS  TO  THR  CONQUERORS  OF  TIMIERA.  _  Lord  CASTLEIIEACH  said  whatever  difference  of  opi opinion  nion opinion  might  exist  as  to  the  termination  of  the  campaign  in  Portugal,  it  had  added  another  laurel  to  the  wreath  won  at  Egypt  and  Maida  ;  and  though  the  present  might  have  fallen  short  of  the  result  expected  from  it,  yet  in  a  military  point  of  view  it  was  extellaa  to  fame  by  none.  '.Chi  I  RIP-  The  original  motioa  was  put  and  carried,  w+•ith  a  single  dis.  sensing  voice  of  Lord  Folk:gone.  The  Thanks  of  the  House  were  then  voted  to  Major  Generals  Spencer,  Hill,  Ferguson,  to  Brigadier-General•  Ackland,  Nt4btingale,  Facie,  and  Bowes,  anti  to  the  other  01ticcas  of  the  Army.  The  House  came  to  a  resolution,  approviog  of  the  steady  dis•  eipline  and  valour  of  the  now.commi,sionetl  tinkers  aatt  privates  of  the  same  army.  =  ~w  P5_TB00007 executed,  were  considered,  his  march  into  Spain  would  ever  'of  the  House  tti  the  splendid  action  perforined  on  the  17ib.  The  rank  as  one  of  the  first  displays  of  milit  ar  y  skill  and STYLE=superscript  excellent  enemy  were  driven  from  one  of  the  strougest  positions  that  a  body  e  •  disposition.  It  was  not  for  want  of  transports  that  he  deters  of  troops  could  occupy,  and  an  earteat  given  Of  what  was  after-  •  .  1.  mined  to  march  into  Spain  by  land,  but  as  best  calculated  for  wards  realized  in  the  immortal  battle  of  the  21st.  lie  wished  to  military  elfeet.  No  doubt  could  possibly  he  entertained  of  the  he  perfectly  understood,  in  the  Motion  he  should  have  to  submit,  '  r  ,  propriety  of  this  step,  for  if  th  e  arm  y  h  a  d  b  een  assem  b  le  d  ,  (b  y  not  to  intend  the  sli  g  h  t  e  s  t  dis  res  p  ec  t  t  owar  ds  Sir  H.  litirrard.  11  1 STYLE=superscript  G  seat  in  allicia,  it  must  have  b  een  d  estroye  d  to  a  ll  i  n  t  ents  an  d  All  the  military  merit  of  thi  s  Campaign  was  Sir  A.  Wellesle:,'s.  purposes,  and  rendered  unfit  for  service,  from  the  barrenness  of  He  concluded  by  moving  a  Vote  of  Thanks  to  Sir  A.  Welle4ley,  .  T.  the  country  and  the  want  of  every  necessary  resource.  When  and  jthe  Officers  land  men  under  hisicominand,  fur  the  skiff,  disci-  .•  the  junction  had  beet!  formed  o  ith  the  o  th  er  di  v  i  s  i  on  o  f  th  e  B  e  i_  Wine,  and  bravery  displayed  on  the  17th  of  An  41  1 STYLE=superscript  ,1.  HI  forcing  tisti  force,  Sir  John  Moore  learned  the  fate  of  the  allied  armies  the  French  posts,  and  on  the  21st,  at  the  battle  of  V  imiera.  with  which  it  Iva,  intended  he  should  have  co-operated.  He  was  .  -f  l  .  Jr.  Wittanneau,  after  having  expressed  his  unqualified  ap-  no  w  convinced  that  it  was  impossible  for  him  to  stand  singly  probation  of  the  proness  and  gallantry  of  Sir  A.  11 STYLE=superscript  elicslev,  ..il  •.'  against  •  the  immense  power  of  France,  and  relinquishing  every  nevertheless  rose  14  move  to  insert  in  the  motile',  immediately  4  idea  of  so  fruitless  aud  dangerous  a  resolution,  he  determined  to  before  the  name  of  Sir  A.  Wellesley,  that  of  Sir  H.  Berrard.  .  :  run  the  risk  of  making  a  p  o  we  r  ful  di  vers  i  on  i  n  f  avour  o  f  t  h  e  The  CHANCELLOR  of  the  .IXCHLIVILR  objected  decidedly  to  .  Spanish  force  in  the  south,  and  taking  the  chaace  of  attack-.  this  amendment.  il'e  ins,;  Soult.  As  far  as  the  first  part  of  this  plan  was  concerned  he  The  original  motion  was  put  and  carried,  with  a  single  tliis  .  ,  was  eminently  successful.  With  regard  to  the  latter  part  ;  al-  senting  voice  of  Lord  Foiltstoue.  •i  •  ..  though  disappointed  in  his  de  s  i  g  n  o  f  attac  ki  ng  t  h  e  '  enemy  ,  un  d  er  The  Thanks  of  the  House  were  then  voted  to  Major  Generals  ..  Soult,  yet  Providence  gave  him  an  opportunity  of  leaving  to  the  Spencer,  Hill,  Ferguson,  to  Brigadier-Generals  Acaland,  •  army  an  example  of  the  greatest  military  talents.  At  Comma,  he  '  Nightingale,  Few,  aud  Bowes,  and  to  the  other  ()dicers  of  the  had  at  length  the  satisfaction  of  being  able  to  meet  and  to  defeat  Army.  an  enemy  his  superior  in  every  respect  but  in  bravery,  discipline,,  The  House  came  to  a  resolution,  approving  of  the  steady  dise  and  determined  resolution.  When  the  movements  of  an  army  eipline  and  valour  of  the  non-commissioned  talkers  amt  privates  are  so  rapid  as  those  of  ours  necessarily  were,  the  retreatiae  of  the  same  army.  ~.-,-..  A  army  are  compelled  to  leave  behind  them  all  those  who  are  too  esracase  OF  THE  ARMY.  .  7 STYLE=superscript  i  1  weak  to  maintain  the  exerti  o  n  s  requ  i  re  d  f  or  th  e  ce  l  er  ity  o  f  th  e  L  or  d  C  ASTLEREAGH  rose  .  Il  e  wou  l.l  at  t  hi  s  d  a  y  ven  t  ure  '.  .  -  .  much,  while  the  enemy  on  the,other  hand  follows,  with  the  most  to  say,  that  no  Military  measure  had  ever  been  o  inueediately  L  . STYLE=superscript  strong  and  athletic  of  his  forces.  It  was  thus  not  a  trial  of  and  effectually  productive  _o  •  the  army,  ns  that  adopted  in  1807.  .  courage  but  of  physical  strength.  If,  af  t  er  all  this,  an  a  rmy  The  number  o  f  m  e  n  a  ll  o  Wed  by  that  mea  s  ure  to  vo  lu  n  t  e  er  fr  o  m  .  .  could  completely  defeat,  aud  embark  in  the  presence  of  a  superior  the  militia  into  the  line,  was  25,000,  of  which  s  hole  number  ;,,  '.  ,  .  force,  which  they  had  heat  the  day  before  ;  if  their  embi  t  rka-,  'there  had  been  a  deficiency  of  only  8  00300  men;  the  rest,  con-  )  tion  was  so  complete,  that  net  a  single  wounded  man,  not  a  isting  of  some  of  the  best  disciplined  and  most  effective  soldiers  n  t  single  piece  of  artillery,  or  an  article  of  the  capture  of  which  in  the  service,  had  entered  into  the  title,  and  to  their  steadiness  the  enemy  could  boast,  were  left  ;  it  was  impossible  to  deny,  .  aud  valour  the  cotunry  was,  no  doubt,  in  a  great  measure  in-  ,  that  such  an  atehievement  ranked  with  the  most  glorious  that  depted  for  the  glory  which]  it  had  acquired  at  'V  indent  aad  41  . STYLE=superscript  1,-.1  ever  adorned  the  British  name.  A  more  splendid  movement  o  f  Corunna.  lie  allowed  that  the  levy  of  NI  ilitia,  in  older  to  supply  79,.  combined  naval  and  military  means  ne  v  er  was  witness  e  d.  I  t  Ihe  place  of  28,000,  who,  by  the  frill  of  1507,  permitted  the  •  ,  justified  Government  of  making  use  of  these  two  strong  arms  f  or  Volunteers  into  the  line,  pressed  heavy  on  the  country  ;  but  it  ..  the  salvation  of  the  oppressed  world.  The  Noble  Lord  eo  n-  shewed  what  the  country  was  w  hen  caned  on  for  exertion.  Par-  1,  eluded  with  moving,  that  an  humble  Address  be  presented  t  o  his  liament  had  demanded  43,000  militia  men  frma  (treat  Britain  and  l't  Majesty,  that  his  Majesty  should  be  graciously  pleased  to  order  Ireland  ;in  six  months  after  ;  . STYLE=superscript  :tat  demand  41.50  joined  their  .  a  monument  to  he  erected  in  gratitude  to  the  memory  of  'Acute-  respective  regiments.  lie  concluded,  therefore,  by  moving  nant-General  Sir  John  Moore,  K.  B.  in  the  Cathedral  Church  for  leave  to  bring  in  a  bill  to  allow  a  certatn  part  of  the  Militia  of  St.  Paul's,  who,  after  having  spent  an  honourable  and  inerito.  of  Great  Britain  to  volunteer  into  the  re;ttier  army.  rious  life  in  the  service  of  his  country,  fell,  deeply  lamented,  •  Mr.  Tire  aEV  said,  he  made  .nine  observations  on  the  I  on  the  16th  of  January,  1809,  at  Corunna.  where  he  defeated  a  present  occasion,  to  guard  himself  from  being  supposed  to  •  Very  superior  French  army,  and  established  the  glory  of  the  assent  to  the  proposition  that  his  Majesty's  Alinisters  had  a  I  I STYLE=superscript  '  British  military  character.  claim  on  the  country,  to  have  a  further  force  placed  at  their  The  question  was  now  put  by  the  Speaker,  and  carried  unani-  disposal,  without  having  first  accounted  for  the  way  in  w  hich  sanisls.  thev  had  employed  that  already  entrusted  to  them.  Lord  CASTLEREAGH  then  moved  the  Thanks  of  the  House  to  After  several  Members  had  spoken  in  opposition  to  the  nice.  Lieut.-Generals  Sir  D.  Baird,  Hope,  M‘tienzie,  Frazer,  Lord  f  sure,  and  on  theiptestion  being  put  for  lease  to  bring  iu  the  bill,  W.  Bentutck,  R.  Paget,  and  Major-Generals  Beresford,  Come,  a  division  took  place.  Nianninghttm.  Hill,  Ward,  Leigh,  H.  note,  Disney,  and  Slade,  For  the  motion,  77—Against  it,  20.  ,  •  aa  The  hill  was  then  read  a  firs  time,  and  ordered  to  be  read  a  w  hich  was  also  carried  unanimously.  .  H  ~.  Thanks  were  then  voted  to  the  Officers,  Nun-commissioned  second  time  oil  Tuesday  next.—Adjourned.  Ogicers,  and  Soldiers,  for  their  bravery  and  resolution  displayed  -  o  t  ,  ...  by  them  at  the  battle  of  Corunna.  FRIDAY  , STYLE=superscript  JAN.  27 STYLE=superscript  .  e  Lord  CASYLERFAGH  observed,  that  as  a  great  part  of  the  THANKS  TO  SIR  A.  WELLESLEY  '  t  i' STYLE=superscript  .  l STYLE=superscript  s  ' STYLE=superscript  l  success  attending  the  embarkation  of  the  troops  was  owin  g  to  the  The  Speaker,  addressing  himself  to  that  General,  eommuni..  I  '  ..•  -  •  a  s  exertions  of  the  Navy,  he  hoped  the  House  would  agree  with  cited  to  him  the  thanks  of  the  House  in  nearly  the  following  hits  in  a  vote  of  thanks  to  Admiral  De  Courcy  and  Sir  S.  Hood,  terms.  '•  :,  ,'  .  with  the  Qffieere  and  :gen  under  their  command,  which  was  ac-  ~  S STYLE=superscript  ir  Arthur  Wellesley—  -.1  After  the  events  of  the  last  year,  it  .._  •,  cordingly  agreed  to.  was  impossible  for  this  House,  on  its  assembling,  not  to  direct  .  ,  Its  earliest  attention  to  the  splendid  services  performed  in  Por-  Tli  ANXS  TO  THR  CONQUERORS  OF  TIMIERA.  tu  l  g  v  a  (  l  )f  b  n  y  p  t  i  l  a  te  n  i  n  trmy  under  your  command  ;  and  amidst  that  diva  . STYLE=superscript  -  •  'Lord  CAmenEactit  said  whatever  difference  or  opt  - STYLE=superscript  i  which  exists  on  almost  every  topic,  the  voice  0  nion  might  exist  as  to  ther  termination  of  the  campaign  in  ''  the  public,  and  of  this  House,  has  been  unanimous  in  awar  ..I  Portugal,  it,  had  added  another  laurel  to  the  wreath  won  to  your  distinguished  services  the  tribute  of  applause  and  ge.t.ti.  .  ,  .  .  ...  ..  at  Egypt  and  Maida  ;  and  though  the  present  might  have  tude—(hear  I  hear  !  )-.lt  is  your  peculiar  praise  to  have  •:otig  ..  ..  fallen  short  of  the  result  expected  from  it,  yet  1a  a  military  mantled  out  only  the  iert:ces,  but  the  hearts  of  the  troop  nae  .  ,  ..  point  of  view  it  was  safely STYLE=superscript  to  fame  by  1200  e•  '.Chi STYLE=superscript  .:*:.  .  .  i"
