text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  M  I  Ibis  Addressed  :  .~  ward  to  the  day  after  to-morrow  ;  there  are  still  however  two  si  hole  nights  before  I  shall  clasp  my  darling  in  my  arms  !  How  happy  am  I  to  learn  that  you  are  better;  I  still  however  will  not  give  up  my  hopes  of  the  cause  of  your  feeling  uncomfortable.  Claveriug  is  mistaken,  my  Angel  !  in  thinking  that  any  new  re regiments  giments regiments  are  to  be  raised;  it  is  not  intended,  only  td  battalions  to  the  existing  corps  ;  you  had  better,  therefore,  tell  him  so,  and  that  you  were  sure  that  there  would  be  no  use  in  applying  for  him.  Ten  thousand  thanks,  my  love,  fir  the  handkerchiefs,  which  are  delightful;  and  l  need  not,  I  trust,  assure  you  of  the  pleasure  I  feel  in  wearing  them,  and  thinking  of  the  dear  hands  that  made  them  for  me.  Nothing  could  be  more  satisfactory  than  the  tour  I  have  made,  and  the  state  in  which  I  have  found  every  thing.  The  whole  of  'the  day  before  yesterday  was  em employed  ployed employed  in  visiting  the  works  at  Dover;  reviewing  the  troops  there,  and  exatnining  the  coast  as  far  as  this  place.  From  Folkston  I  had  a  very  good  view  of  those  of  the  French  camp.  Yesterday  I  first  reviewed  the  camp  here,  and  afterwards  the  14th  Light  dragoons,  who  are  certainly  in  very  fine  order;  and  from  thence  proceeded  to  Brabourne  Lees,  to  see  four  regiments  of  militia;  which,  altogether,  took  me  up  near  thirteen  hours.  am  now  setting  oil'  immediately  to  ride  along  the  coast  to  Hastings,  reviewing  the  different  corps  as  I  pass,  which  will  take  ma  at  least  as  long.  Adieu,  therefore,  my  sweetest,  dearest  love,  till  the  day  after  to-morrow,  and  be  assured  that  to  my  lasi  hour  I  shall  ever  remain  your's  and  your's  George  Farquhar,  Esq.  18,  Gloucester-place,  Here  the  letters  finished,  when  Mr.  Dockery,  a  servant  in  the  employment  of  the  late  Mr.  Birkett,the  pawnbroker  and  silver silversmith,  smith, silversmith,  •in  Princes-street,  was  called  in  and  examined  by  Mr,  Wardle.----Q.  Do  you  mean  to  state,  that  neither  the  Mike  of  York  nor  Mrs.  Clarke  authorized  any  person  to  examine  and  treat  about  the  plate?  A.  Certainly  not.---  Q.  Do  you  recollect  any  thing  with  regard  to  the  payment  or  the  plate  ?  A.  Yes;  5001.  was  to  be  paid  down  at  the  time  it  was  delivered,  and  the  remainder  was  settled  by  bills  at  dif different  ferent different  dates.----Q.  Do  you  know  how  it  was  paid,  whether  is  cash  or  in  bank  notes,  or  how  ?  A.  In  two  mites,  one  of  3001.  and  the  other  of  2001.--,Q.  The  rest  was  in  hills.  Do  von  recollect  by  whom  these  bills  were  drawn  ?  A.  To  the  best  of  my  recollection  they  were  drawn  by  Mrs.  Clarke  upon  the  Duke  of  York.---Q.  Do  you  mean  to  state  then  that  the  who'e  antoont  due  for  the  .service  of  plate,  over  and  above  the  sum  of  5001.  in  ready  money,  was  then  paid  by  the  Duke  of  York  by  these  bills  ?  A.  Certainly.  Mrs.  Hoveuden  examined  by  Mr.  WitnDLE.—Q.  Do  you  know  Colonel  Shaw  ?  A.  1  had  been  for  some  time  informed  that  Mrs.  Clarke  had  the  negotiation  of  an  exchange  from  a  Majority  to  a  Colonelcy.  Major  Shaw  called  upon  me  on  the  subject  ;  upon  which  I  sent  him  to.  Mrs.  Clarke,  but  par particularly  ticularly particularly  recommended  him  to  take  care  that  Mrs.  Clarke  knew  nothing  of  Mr.  Donovan's  having  any  thing  to  do  in  the  matter.—Q.  What  was  the  reason  for  wishing  that  Mr.  Dozo Dozovan's  van's Dozovan's  name  should  be  kept  a  secret?•  A.  Mrs.  Clarke  said,  she  was  afraid  that  Mr.  Donovan  should  mention  to  the  Duke  of  York  any  thing  of  this  business,  which  would  be  her  ruin.  —Q.  What  then  was  the  consequence  of  your  application  to  Mrs.  Clarke  ?  A.  Nothing  at  all.  Mrs.  Clarke  was  then  called  in,  and  examined  by  Mr.  WARDLE.••--Q.  Do  you  remember  Col.  Shaw  wanting  you  to  procure  him  an  appointment  ?  A.  Yes  ;  Barrack-Master  at  the  C  rpe  of  Good  Hope.—Q.  Did  he  promise  you  any  pecuniary  compensation?  A..  Yes;  I  think  a  thousand  pounds.—Q.  Did  you  acquaint  the  Commander  io  Chief  with  the  proposal  that  was  made  to  you  ?  A.  Yei.—Q  Did  you  receive  any  pecuniary  compensation  ?  A.  Yes,  5001..  Q.  How  did  you  receive  that  money  ?  A.  I.had  8001.  of  Colonel  Shaw,  and  MI.  of  another.  Were  you  satisfied  ?  A.  No.---Did  you  co:nplain  to  his  Royal  Highness  ?  A.  Yes  ;  and  his  Royal  Highness  said,  that  he  told  me  ail  along  that  I  had  a  very  bad  inhn  to  deal  with,  and  that  he  would  put  him  on  half  pay.--W.  Was  he  put  on  half  pay  ?  A.  Yes.--Q.You  stated  in  your  last  night's  examination,  that  you  had  seen  Mr.  Dowler  but  twice  since  his  arrival  in  England;  have  you  seen  him  any  oftener  ?  A.  Yes,  I  saw  him  once  beSides.—  Q.  - STYLE=superscript  Where  did  you  see  him  the  third  time  ?  A.  In  this  House.--  Q.  How  often  besides?  A.  Once  or  twice  besides;  once  yesterday.  Q.  Was  the  Thursday  night  un  which  you  saw  Mr.  Dowler,  the  only  night  en  which  you  saw  him  after  his  •return  to  England?  A.  Yes.—Q.  Did  you  stop  with  him  all  night  ?  A  Yes.—Q.  At  whist  Motel  did  you  meet  bim  Bates's  )  in  St.  Martin's.  lane.  117  The  witness  was  here  cross-examined  as  to  the  üb-olute  ex expenditures  penditures expenditures  made  by  the  Duke  of  York  in  support  of  her  esta establishment,  blishment, establishment,  which  she  asserted  never  exceeded  her  stipulated  al allowance  lowance allowance  of  10001.  She  stated  that  he  made  her  some  presents,  of  the  value  of  which  she  was  not  aware.  Examined  by  Mr.  IV  RDLE.—Q.  Had  you  a  footbny  of  the  name  of  Carter?  A.  Yes;  but  Colonel  Wardle  said  he  would  .  not  mention  that  (Mr.  Wardle  smiled).—Q.  Was  he  in  the  habit  •  of  waiting  at  table  an  yourself  and  the  Duke  ?  A.  Yes.—Q.  Did  he  wear  a  livery  ?  A.  No.—Q.  Was  he  in  the  hahit•of  attending  the  carriage  ?  A.  Yes.  sometimes,  hut  be  seldom  sheaved  himself  in  that  way.---Q.  Now  long  was  he  in  your  ser service  vice service  ?  A.  About  twelve  months  .---Q.  ith  whom  did  he  live  before?  A.  With  Colonel  Sutton,  with  whom  he  was  every  thing.—Q.  Where  is  he  now  ?  A.  In  the  %Vest  Indies.--  Q.  Did  you  obtain  for  him  a  Commission  in  the  Armpl  A.  Yes.—Q.  In  what  Regiment  ?  A.  16th  foot  ;  I  think  he  is  uu  the  Staff.—Q.  Was  the  Duke  privy  to,  the  military  promotions  which  you  procured  ?  A.  To  the  whole.---Adjourned.  I  1.  !);*  1r  .i't  M  r  P5_TB00016 than  the  tour  I  have  made,  and  the  state  in  which  1  have  found  vier  ?  A.  About  twelve  inonths.---Q.  N%  ith  whom  did  he  live  every  thing.  The  whole  of  'the  day  before  yesterday  was  em-  before?  A.  With  Colonel  Sutton,  with  whom  he  was  every  ployed  in  visiting  the  works  at  Dover;  reviewing  the  troops  thing.  --. STYLE=superscript  Q.  Where  i  s STYLE=superscript  he STYLE=superscript  n  ow STYLE=superscript  ?A.  In  the  NVest  Indies.--  1  1 STYLE=superscript  there,  and  examining  the  coast  as  far  as  this  place.  From  Q.  Did  you  obtain  for  him  a  Commission  in  the  A  rmill  A.  Folkston  1  had  a  very  good  view  of  those  of  the  French  camp.  Yes.--Q.  In  what  Regiment  ?A.  16th  foot  ;  1  think  ite  is  on  I'  Yesterday-  I  first  reviewed  the  camp  here,  and  afterwards  the  the  Staff.—Q.  Was  the  Duke  privy  to  •  the  military  promotions  14th  Light  dragoons,  who  are  certainly  in  very  fine  order;  and  which  you  procured  ?  A.  To  the  whole.---Adjourned.  1  i  from  thence  proceeded  to  Brabourne  Lees,  to  see  four  regiments  i1=...........•••••  of.  militia;  which,  altogether,  took  me  up  near  thirteen  hours.  .  I  am  now  setting  off  immediately  to  ride  along  the  coast  to  Tuesday,  Feb.  14.  Hastings,  reviewing  the  different  corps  as  I  pass,  which  will  The  SPEAKER,  in  consequence  of  a  Message  from  the  Lords,  ..  take  Into  at  least  as  long.  Adieu,  therefore,  my  sweetest,  dearest  attended  in  their  Lordships  !louse  to  hear  the  Royal  Assent  de-  love,  till  the  day  after  to-morrow,  and  be  assured  that  to  my  dared  by  Commission  to  Lord  Boringdon's  Divorce  Bill.  ..(  lest  hour  I  shall  ever  remain  your's  and  your's  Sir  SAMUEL  Romtt.t.v's  Bill  for  the  Relief  of  Debtors  in  Addressed  . STYLE=superscript  :  Equity  was  read  a  third  time,  passed,  and  ordered  to  the  Lords.  George  Farquhar,  Esq.  18,  Gloucester-place,  MILITIA  ENLISTMENT.  64 STYLE=superscript  sortman-square.'  The  Militia  Enlistment  Bill  was  read  a  third  time,  passed,  and  Here  the  letters  finished,  when  Mr.  Dockery,aservant  in  the  ordered  to  the  Lords.  employment  of  the  late  Mr.  Birkett,thc  pawnbroker  and  silver-  Sir  A.  Wel.t.csLev  presented  a  Bill  for  incorporating  the  smith,  •in  Princes-street,  was  called  in  and  examined  by  Militia  Lawsof  Ireland.  Read  the  hrst  time.  Mr,  Wardle.----Q.  Do  you  mean  to  state,  that  neither  the  1317  KI:  OF  YORK.  Duke  of  York  nor  Mrs.  Clarke  authorized  any  person  to  examine  and  treat  about  the  plate?  A.  Certainly  not.--  - STYLE=superscript  Mr.  CH  A  RLES  STI  ANV  E,  -examined  by  Mr.  W  4  RDI  r.—Q.  Q.  Do  you  recollect  any  thing  with  regard  to  the  payment  or  Did  you  know  that  soot.  was  given  to  Mrs.  Clarke  on  the  account  •  the  plate  ?  A.  Yes;  5001.  was  to  be  paid  down  at  the  time  it  of  Colonel  Shawe?  A.  I  received  a  letter  from  Colonel  Shawe,  was  delivered,  and  the  remainder  was  settled  by  bills  at  dif-  stating,  that  he  wished  to  give  3001.  to  a  friend  who  had  obliged  dr  ferent  dates.----Q.  Do  you  know  how  it  was  paid,  whether  him,  and  transmitting  me  an  order  to  that  amount  on  Coons  and  ids  cash  or  in  bank  notes,  or  how  ?  A.  In  two  notes  ,  Co.  which  was  duly  honoured,  and  which  JOU  I  paid  to  Mrs.  one  of  3001.  and  the  other  of  2001.--,Q.  The  rest  was  in  hills.  Do  Clarke  on  the  very  day  on  which  1  received  it.  !von  recollect  by  whom  these  hills  were  drawn  ?A.  To  the  By  the  Cit  A.  fIC.  EL  1.0  It  of  the  Fsciti:Qt:  ER.—Q.  When  was  best  of  my  recollection  they  were  drawn  by  Mrs.  Clarke  upon  this  ?  A.  I  kept  no  memorandum  ;  but  by  referrin.  , STYLE=superscript  to  the  the  Duke  of  York.---Q.  Do  you  mean  to  state  then  that  books  of  Coutts  and  Co.  I  find  that  it  was  May  the  9i1i1801;.--  ,  the  whore  ansomit  due  for  the  service  of  plate,  over  and  above  the  sum  of  5001.  in  ready  money,  was  then  paid  by  the  Q.  Have  you  got  the  letter?  A.  Unfor  t STYLE=superscript  u  natel STYLE=superscript  y  I STYLE=superscript  have STYLE=superscript  lost STYLE=superscript  it  :  bnt  I  recollect  It  stated  that  he  believed  Mrs.  Clarke  wished  •  Duke  of  York  by  these  bills?  A.  Certainly.  to  serve  him,  and  though  he  got  his  appoimment  through  his  Mrs.  Hoveuden  examined  by  Mr.  WARDLE.—Q.  Do  you  friend  Sir  H.  Burrard,  still  as  she  was  his  friend  also,  he  AS  ished  .  know  Colonel  Shaw  ?  A.  1  had  been  for  some  time  informed  to  be  kind  to  her.  that  Mrs.  Clarke  had  the  negotiation  of  an  exchange  from  a  Colonel  Gomm  N  called  in,  and  examined  by  Nj.r.  WAR.I)  L  E.  Majority  to  a  Colonelcy.  Major  Shaw  called  upon  me  on  Q.  When  Colonel  Shawe  svgs  appointed  Deputy  Barrack-Alas  the  subject  ;  upon  which  I  sent  him  to.  Mrs.  Clarke,  but  par-  ter-General  was  he  put  on  halt*  pay  ?  A.  Immediately  put  on  ticularly  recommended  him  to  take  care  that  Mrs.  Clarke  half-pay.—Q.  Is  it  usual  for  Officers,  who  accept  a  Staff  appoint-  knew  nothing  of  Mr.  Donovan's  having  any  thing  to  do  in  the  went  abroad,  to  be  put  on  half-pay  ?  A.  Yes,  with  souse  ex-  ~  matter.—Q.  What  was  the  reason  for  wishing  that  Nlr.  DORO-  options.—Q.  Was  the  Officer,  who  had  this  appoilantent  before  van's  name  should  be  kept  a  secret?  A.  Mrs.  Clarke  said,  Cohnel  Shawe  on  half  pay  ?  A.  I  think  Color.el  Shawe  was  , STYLE=superscript  4  she  was  afraid  that  Mr.  Donovan  should  mention  to  the  Duke  the  first  who  held  the  situation;  he  got  it  on  the  capture  of  the  $  of  York  any  thing  of  this  business,  which  would  be  her  ruin.  place,—Q.  Was  there  any  deviation  from  rule  in  the  appoint-  -Q.  What  then  was  the  consequence  of  your  application  to  aunt  of  Col.  M.  Shawe  to  the  76th  ;  A.  None  whatever.  Mrs.  Clarke?  A.  Nothing  at  all.  By  Mr.  LA  MB.—Q.  Did  you  ever  hear  that  Mrs.  Clot  ke  sold  i  Mrs.  Clarke  was  then  called  in,  and  examined  by  Mr.  or  pretended  to  sell  commissions  in  the  army  before  yeu  heard  WARDLE.---Q.  Do  you  remember  Col.  Shaw  wanting  you  to  it  in  this  House  ?  A.  Never,  but  through  the  medium  of  the  procure  him  an  appointment  ?A.  Yes;  Barrack-Master  at  the  numerous  libels  which  have  lately  been  published  against  the  Cape  of  Good  Hope.—Q.  Did  he  promise  you  any  pecuniary  Commander  in  Chief.  I  have  since  had  positive  proof  of  the  ex.  compensation?  A.-Yes;  I  think  a  thousand  pounds.—Q.  Did  istence  of  the  abuses.  I  sent  for  Mr.  Frome,  and  after  much  you  acquaint  the  Commander  io  Chief  with  the  proposal  that  conversation,  he  admitted  that  the  sum  of  10031.  had  been  paid  il  was  made  to  you  ?A.  Yei.—Q.  Did  you  receive  any  pecuniary  for  a  paymastership  in  one  of  the  battalions  of  the  tier,:.au  le-  1  i  compensation?  A.  Yes,  5001.--Q.  How  did  you  receive  that  ;ion.  After  repeated  endeavours  to  discover  to  whom  it  had  money  ?A.  Lhad  8001.  Of  Colonel  Shaw,  and  2  001 STYLE=superscript  .  of  another.  been  pa  id, STYLE=superscript  he STYLE=superscript  acknowled STYLE=superscript  g  ed STYLE=superscript  that STYLE=superscript  Mr.  Heile')  was  the  person.  i  Were  you  satisfied  ?A.  No.---Did  you  co:nplain  to  his  Royal  The  House  will  allow  me  to  state  my  surprise  at  the  impudence  Highness  ?A.  Yes  ;  and  his  Royal  Highness  said,  thOt  he  told  of  this  Gentleman,  when  he  told  me,  that  he  had  received  the  me  ail  along  that  I  had  a  very  bad  Man  to  deal  with,  and  that  money,  but  would  say  no  more  about  it.  This  is  all  that  passed  he  would  put  him  on  half  pay.---W.  Was  he  put  on  half  pay  ?A.  on  that  subject.—Q.  What  did  the  Duke  of  York  answer  when  Yes.--Q.You  stated  in  your  last  night's  examination,that  you  had  you  communicated  this  business  to  him?  A.  lie  desired  that  I  seen  Mr.  Dowler  but  twice  since  his  arrival  in  England;  have  should  scrutinize  the  matter  to  the  bottom,  and  let  the  guilt  fall  l'  ,  you  seen  him  any  oftener  ?  A.  Yes,  I  saw  him  once  hisides.—  on  whom  it  might,  that  he  would  make  an  example'  of  them.  ;  Q.  Where  did  you  see  him  the  third  time  ?A.  In  this  House.--  By  .Mr.  WAKDIX.--Q.  'l'hrou  gh  ,  what  recommendation  as  i  Q.  How  often  besides?  A.  Once  or  twice  besides;  once  yesterday.  I  appears  in  your  office,  was  Samuel  Carter  appointed  to  an  Eu-  Q.  Was  the  Thursday  night  un  which  you  saw  Mr.  Dowler,  the  sigucy  in  the  16th  foot.  A.  The  letter  of  recommendation  w  hi  ch  .  .  only  night  en  which  you  saw  him-  after  his  'return  to  England?  I  was  then  addresaed  to  the  Deke  of  York,  dated  Royal  ta.  t  A.  Yes.—Q.  Did  you  stop  with  him  all  night  ?  A  Yes.—Q.  I  boratory,  Dec.  7,  ISM,  and  stated,  that  the  kindness  which  i  f  k  At  whoa  Motel  41  meet  him  ?  al.  Batess)  in  s  id  you  '  St.  Martin'-  i  s  p  s  i  l  s  Royal  highness  had  always  shewn  towards  Lieut.  Sutton,  .  -.  lane.  .  dared  him  to  address  his  Royal  flightless  in  favour  of  as  °J..  i"
