text
"e  must  be  taken  at  last  ;  and  if  the  original  plan  be  led  to,  the  transition  from  slow  deliberation,  to  in-  temperate  hurry,  is  so  sudden,  that  what  is  material  to  the  success  of  the  execution,  is  omitted,  or  delivered  in  an  im imr...rfe.et  r...rfe.et imr...rfe.et  state.  14  proportion  as  we  abhor  the  vices,  let  us  imitate  the  meritorious  qualities  of  .the  Usurper.  The  firmness  and  activity  he  displays  for  the  worst  of  purposes,  let  us  prac practise  tise practise  to  promote  the  happicess  and  liberty  of  mankind.  In  his  pursuits  indefatigable  and  constant,  he  never  betrays  alternate  precipitancy,  and  tardiness;  but,  firm  in  his  views,  he  deliberates  carefully,  and  executes  rapidly.  This  - STYLE=superscript  et  of  government;  and  unless  we  adopt  it  cur  political  conduct,  we  may  continue  to  ,  useless  sacrifices  of  money  and  men,  with withsingle  single withsingle  object  worth  contending  for,  or  se se-1  -1 se-1  safety.  We  have  immense  resources  at  , STYLE=superscript  re  than  ever  fell  to  the  lot  of  any  other  population  is  adequate  for  all  the  pur purdefence,  defence, purdefence,  as  well  as  the  most  lofty  ambi ambi'c  'c ambi'c  effects  of  our  institutions  are  capable  of  Iral  character  to  the  sublimest  enthusiasm  ;  ituatiou  combines  every  advantage  which  philosopher  could  wish.  To  •  appreciate  our  means,  moral  and  physical,  let  us  suppose  a  CHATHAM,  with  the  uncontrouled  influence  which  his  genius  and  virtue  should  entitle  him  to,  entrust entrusted  ed entrusted  with  the  direction  of  our  affairs.  With  the  army,  navy  and  finances  of  the  country  at  his  disposal,  his  soarinrand  comprehensive  mind  would  erect  a  stupendous  fabric  which  we  grow  dizzy►  in  contemplating.  The  present  situation  of  the  enemy  in  Spain  he  would  consider  as  the  most  auspicious  circumstance  which  fortune  has  in  her  power  to  offer;  and  we  form  an  erroneous  opinion  of  the  extent  and  power  of  human  abilities,  if  he  would  not  Cu-  deavour,  by  one  of  those  bold  operations  which  genius  •  alone  can  devise,  to  terminate  at  once  French  rivality  and  opposition.  That  great  Statesman,'  prepared  for  every  occurrence,  would  always  have  our  whole  disposable  force  ready  for  immediate  embarkatiOn,  and  an  adequate  num number  ber number  of  transports  to  convey  them  wherever  their  services  might  be  required.  We  will  not  insult  the  memory  of  that  great  man  by  even  asking  the  question,  if  he  would  have  issued  orders  similar  to  those  reported  to  have  been  sent  by  the  present  Cabinet,  on  receiving  Sir  JOHN  MoonE'S  dispatches.  No  :  his  soul  was  not  to  be  daunted  by  ditli  cultics,  or  surprised  by  rumours  the  moment  he  received  the  intelligence,  a  telegraphic  dispatch  would  have  in instantly  stantly instantly  ordered  to  repair  to  their  destination  the  com commanders  manders commanders  of  our  fleets  and  armies.  But  it  is  useless  as  well  as  impertinent  to  indulge  even  in  a  supposition  of  the  kind  ;  for,  under  an  administration  like  his,  our  arm%  would  not  be  reduced  to  the  mortifying  predicament  of  flying  before  the  enemy.  Instead  of  30  or  35,000  men,  a  :British  force  of  130,000,  conducted  by  a  MaaLnonosen,  (for  talents  create  talents,)  would  have,  a  month  ago,  seized  the  passes  of  the  Pyrenees,  and  shut  up  BONAPARTE  and  his  army  foe  ever  in  Spain.  This  may  be  termed  idle  rant  and  extravagant  speculation.  To  fools  and  cowards,  every  thing  decisive,  and  beyond  the  range  of  their  puny  elmprehension,  is  ridiculed  as  impracticable.  Quitting,  however,  speculations  of  this  nature,  for  what  it  is  now  in  our  power  to  perform,  or  the  Ministers  of  our  time  are  svilling  to  hazard,  we  will  take  the  liberty  of  suggesting,  at  least,  the  necessity  of  removing  the  public  uneasiness,  *-  •  r  row  ritt  4b STYLE=superscript  i  s  ' STYLE=superscript  -  •  *  A- STYLE=superscript  P STYLE=superscript  TITE  . STYLE=superscript  NATIONAL  REGISTER..  g  r  ,t  •.  JAN.  15.  by  ordering  the  Expedition  immediately  to  sail.  Whither  ?  to  Vigo  undoubtedly,  to  co-operate  with  their  country countrymen,  men, countrymen,  or  cover  their  embarkation.  We  absolutely  reject  the  number  of  Frenchmen,  which  the  Morning  Chronicle  and  other  party  Papers,  opposition  as  well  as  ministerial,  have  detachNl  in  pursuit  of  our  army  ;  and  are  much  in inclined  clined inclined  to  believe  they  do  not  amount  to  50,000  men.  The  last  Bulletin  of  the  enemy  seems  to  corroborate  this  con conjecture  jecture conjecture  ;  and  if  Ministers  have  any  respect  for  their  own  reputation,  any  deference  for  public  opinion,  or  a  wish  to  perform  any  thing  effective  in  support  of  the  Spaniards,  they  will  expose  themselves  no  more  to  the  imputation  that  every  trifling  dispatch  is  capable  of  disconcerting  their  plans  and  paralysing  their  vigour.  FOREIGN  INTELLIGENCE.  FROM  THE  FRENCH  P.  4  PERc.  TWENTIETH  BULLETIN  OF  THE  ARMY  OF  SPAIN.  MADRID,  DEC.l9.—liis  Majesty  this  day  reviewed  the  army  which  is  at  Madrid,  with  all  its  equipage  and  appointments.  Sixty  thousand  men,  150  pieces  of  cannon,  more  than  1500  carts  loaded  with  biscuit  and  hrandy,  formed  an  assemblage  formid formidable  able formidable  in  every  respect.  The  right  of  the  army  was  utationed  ou  Charmart  in,  and  the  left  stretched  beyond  Madrid.  .  .  The  Duke  of  Belluna  still  continues  at  Toledo  with  the  whole  of  his  corps.  The  Duke  of  Dantzic.  with  the  whole  of  his  corps,  still  con continues  tinues continues  at  Talavira  de  la  Reyna.  The  Bth  corps  has  arrived  at  Burgos.  General  St.  Cyr  is  forming  his  junction  at  Barcelona  with  General  Duhesme.  Our  posts  of  cavalry  are  clearing  the  roads  to  the  borders  of  Andalusia.  The  Emperor  has  given  the  army  a  few  days  of  repose.  Very  fine  fortifications  are  carrying  on  upon  the  heights  o!  . STYLE=superscript  Madrid.  Six  thousand  men  are  employed  on  these  works.  The  small  besieging  train,  composed  of  24-pounders  and  of  small  mortars,  is  arrived.  There  has  been  found  at  Talaverade  de  la  Regna,  about  5  men  in  the  hospitals,  two  or  three  hundred  saddles,  and  some  re remains  mains remains  of  magazines  belonging  to  the  English  troops.  Some  de detachments  tachments detachments  of  cavalry  have  made  their  appearance  in  the  neigh neighbourhood  bourhood neighbourhood  of  Valladolid.  This  is  the  first  symptom  of  existence  which  the  English  have  indicated.  Their  sick  and  their  de deserters  serters deserters  arc  in  great  number.  On  the  13th  of  December  their  army  was  still  at  Salama:ica.  Such  distinguished  self-denial  ;  such  a  singular  state  of  inurnbility  for  the  last  six  successive  weeks,  must  be  acknowledged  to  hare  the  appearance  of  some something  thing something  very  extraordinary.  His  Majesty  enjoys  the  most  perfect  state  of  health.  FROM  THE  SPANISH  PAPERS.  CAPITULATION  OF  MADRID.  FROM  THE  MADRID  GAZETTE,  DEC.  7,  ISOS.  CAPITULATION  PROPOSED  EY  THEMILITARY  ANDfCIV  IL  JUNTA  OF  MADRID,  TO  lIIS  IMPERIAL  AND  ROYAL  MAJESTY  THE  EMPEROR  OF  THE  FRENCH.  Art.  I.—The  preservation  of  the  Catholic,  Apostolic,  and  Roman  Religion,  without  any  other  being  legally  tolerated.  Answer.—Granted.  Art.  11.--The  liberty  and  security  of  the  liveinnd  properties  of  the  citizens  and  other  persons  residing  in  Madrid,  as  well  as  of  those  in  public  employments:  the  preservation  of  their  situa situations,  tions, situations,  or  the  option  of  their  retiring  from  this  Court,  if  they  should  prefer  it.—Likewise  the  lives,  privileges,  and  properties-  of  the  secular  and  regular  Eccle=iasties  of  both  sexes,  together  with  the  respect  due  to  the  Churches,  all  in  conformity  to  our  laws  and  customs.  Answer;—Granted.  P2_TB00025 r,ever  l STYLE=superscript  adhe,  P2_TB00026 ~.104,1  41,  4  1  4fre  '  v  p  ue  secre  -;,  i  sts:l4.  asis  of  of  .  ,  r  years,  ---  ,„  ;  440t,  0  ning  a  i  ~,  '•  ,  •  .r  -  , STYLE=superscript  Ofigtermaneni  f_r4mir  disppsal,  moi  4,  ~.  ',.1:  - STYLE=superscript  )olli.i  f  ou  A.:  t  nd  our  uternal  I  Ole  magic  4-.0  '4'  At  ',  ~,--?',rl  .-74:)ur  mora  e  .  4  :0:  f':,,  ,  •  .  .r;i  (  ..  ,  .  r  insular  sit  -  '  the  statesman  or  1  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  JAN.  15.  the  adituitment  of  the  controversy  between  the  United  States  .tti,i  Great  Britain.  _bathe  House  of  Representatives,  Nov.  15,  1808.  Read  and  accepted.  Sent  up  for  our  concurrence,  Thizoritv  Blontow,  Speaker.  /a  Senate,  Nov.  16,  1808.  Read  and  concurred,  11.  G.  OTIS,  President.  Nere  follows  a  long  report  of  the  Speaker,  in  which  he  enu enumerates  merates enumerates  almost  every  act  9f  the  Executive  Government  concern concerning  ing concerning  the  embargo,  passing  an  indirect  censure  on  each  of  them,  but  in  particular  the  Proclamation  of  the  President,  prohibiting  the  entrance  of  British  ships  of  war  into  the  American  harbours,  in  which  he  says—the  Proclamation  immediately  after  the  affair  of  the  Chesapeake,  and  before  an  explanation  took  place  was  prope.i  ;  hut  England  having  explained  the  aliair  in  an  open  'and  frank  manner,  sending  for  that  purpose  an  extraordinary  mission,  it  could  no  longer  be  viewed  as  either  necessary  or  useful.]  SENATE,  :Varmint,  Nov.  21,  1808.  FRIDAY,  DEC.  2.—The  Senate  resumed  the  consideration  of  the  motion  to  repeal  the  several  Embargo  Laws  ;  and,  on  motion  of  Mr.  Reed  to  refer  the  said  motion  to  the  Committee  appointed  on  the  14th  tilt.  to  whom  w•as  referred  so  much  of  the  President's  Message  as  relates  to  the  several  Embargo  Laws,  it  was  determined  in  the  negative.—Yeas  i—Nays  26.  On  the  question  to  agree  to  the  original  Motion,  it  was  determined  in  the  negative—Yeas  6—Nays  26.  WASHINGTON,  DEC.  9.—Mr.  Giles,  from  a  Committee  appointed  in  the  Senate  yesterday,  reported  A  Bill,  Making  further  provision  fin  enforcing  the  EMBARGO.  Nov.  14.—Mr.  IVlumford  proposed  the  following.  Resolu Resolution,  tion, Resolution,  which  was  referred  to  a  Committee  of  the  who}..  House.  Resolved,  That  the  Act  laying  an  Embargo  on  all  the  ports  and  harbours  of  the  United  States,  and  the  several  Acts  supple  mentary  thereto,  he  repealed,  as  far  as  to  allow  the  ships  and  vessels  of  the  United  States  to  depart  with  their  cargoes  for  those  countries  not  subject  to  ti  - STYLE=superscript  e  Decrees  of  France,  or  those  subject  to  the  British  Orders  in  Council.  Mr.  Muniford  stated  his  object  to  be,  to  open  our  trade  to  such  parts  of  the  world  aswere  not  affected  by  the  de decrees  crees decrees  and  orders  of  France  and  Great  Britain  :  such  as  China,  the  native  ports  of  India,  Barbary,  Sweden,  Rus Russia,  sia, Russia,  and  the  free  ports  in  the  %Vest  Indies.  Nov.  16.—Mr.  Cook  offered  a  Resolution  to  the  follow following  ing following  effect  :  That  the  Citizens  of  the  United  . STYLE=superscript  States  be  permitted  to  arm  and  equip  the  merchant  vessels;  for  the  purpose  r  f  fending  them  against  French  and  Briti-h  mazer:,  when  bound  to  any  port  or  place  pot  actu►tlly  invested  or  blockaded.  Referred  to  the  Committee  of  the  whole  House.  Extract  of  a  Letter  from  a  Gentleman  in  Cape  Francoi%,  dated  Nov.  11,  1808,  to  his  friend  in  Philadelphia:  •  I  now  annex,  for  your  information,  a  copy  of  a  lefik.r  re received  ceived received  by  we  :  Mr.  Cape..  DEAR  St  have  only  just  time  to  announce  to  you  the  total  destruction  of  the  revolted  party's  flotilla  otitis.  Niark'it,  by  say  squadron  ;  the  fruits  of  this  brilliant  acti.  n  is  the  capture  of  two  of  the  enemy's  largest  and  heaviest  scoumers,  and  Tour  armed  barges,  and  two  sunk  ;  one  of  the  vessels  captured  plote‘  to  be  Commodore  Boi  Blanc's  flag-ship  ;  he  abandoned  his  ve,  eel,  and  saved  himself  by  swimming  on  shore  ;  she  is  to:  wit':  •  all  kinds  of  military  equipments  and  provisions,  intended  for  the  revolted  army.  I  have  ordered  general  Doe  to  make  a  general  attack  on  the  enemy,  their  retreat  being  cut  off  fram  port  :‘,.  Prince,  and  are  hemmed  in  on  all  sides.  I  expect  to  e  a  faH  . STYLE=superscript  and  satisfactory  account  of  their  total  annihilatton..  fte-;  assured  they  shall  never  again  reach  Port  an  Prince.  I  .  salute  you  with  friendship.  H.  CILAASTO  rug.  •  Nov.  10,  1808.  A  letter  from  a  Gentleman  arrived  at  the  Southward,  who  left  St.  Pierre's,  Martinique,  on  the  20th  of  October,  to  his  friend  in  lloston,  says  Considerable  alarm  was  experienced  at  St.,  :triti,sk  kiwi*  at.  Barbados.,  some  said  *OOO.  I  t,OOO.  The  French  generally  believed  the  Wand  would  be  attacked,  and  it  was  said  the  inhabitants  were  order  . STYLE=superscript  co  be  ready  .at  a  moment's  warning,  who  was  at  Martinique,  received  a  letter  from  his  brother  is  Lucia,  under  a  feigned  name,  and  in  French,  desiring  him  to  leave  the  Island  instantly,  but  gave.  noexplanntion..  It  is  the  opinion  of  every  one,  that  the  Island  will  be  rigorously  The  Nolfolk  Ledger.  of  the  sth  instant  says  A  Gen Gentleman,  tleman, Gentleman,  who  arrived  - STYLE=superscript  .here  oh  - STYLE=superscript  Sattitdq,  in  21  days  from  Cape  Francois,  informs  us,  that  an  express  had  arrived  at  the  cape,  bringing  information  that  Cen.  Ferrand  had  snr snrrtendera  rtendera snrrtendera  the  City  of  tit..  Domingo  to  the  British,  and  that  it  was  garrisoned  with  troops  of  that  nation.  Samana,  it  was  also  said,  was  taken  by  the  Spaniards.  The  surrender  of  the  former  was  a  voluntary  offer  on  the  part  of  General  Ferrand.  The  war  between  christophe  and  Pction  still  -aged  with  unabated  fury.  The  former  had  been  success successful  ful successful  latterly,  particularly  in  the  destruction  of  Potion's  naval  ~  ~  PROVINCIALS.  CAMBRIDGE,  JA!g.  7.—The  late  Rev.  John  Hulse's  premium  will  this  year  be  given  for  the  best  dissertation  On  the  advan advantage  tage advantage  of  Difficulties  in  Religion  ;  or  an  attempt  to  shew  the  good  effects,  which  result,  or  which  might  result,  from  the  proofs  of  Revelation  being  of  a  probable,  rather  than  of  a  demonstrative  A  member  of  the  Herefordshire  Agricultural  Society  has  given  a  challenge  of  500  or  1000  guineas,  to  any  person  in  that  or  any  other  country,  to  shew  for  either  of  the  sums,  the  best  plantation  of  apple-trees,  planted  and  reared  by  the  proprietor,  on  his  own  land.  At  break  of  day  on  Tuesday  last,  an  enormous  fish  way  des descried  cried descried  at  half  rabies  length  front  Penryn  quay,  steering  towards  the  town;  and  three  boats,  under  the  direetient  of  Capt.  Dunn,  were  manned  to  attack  him.  The  first  he  enclosed,  as  it  were  in  a  pond,  formed  by  a  circular  curve  from  head  to  tnil,  with without  out without  doing  tiny  injury.  A  man  then  courageously  tut  a  hole  is  the  dorsal  fin,  through  which  he  drove  a  hooked  rope.  Upon  feeling  this  Or  fish  attempted  to  put  to  sea,  but  being  diverted  by  some  hard  Mows  on  theinout,  he  sheered  tostards  the  Fal Falmouth  mouth Falmouth  road.  A  three  inch  rope  doubled  was  then  parbuckled  round  him,  which  he  instantaneously  snapped.  A  hawser  from  the  quay  was  next  applied  to  hints  when,  after  dragging  a  sloop's  anchor,  tearing  up  a  moor-stow  post  on  the  quay,  and  kfavine  a  boat,  he  was  brought  into  shoal  water,  and,  it  being  ehb  tide,  subdued.  He  WIN  afterwards  toned  roiled  by  three  i.iats,  and  with  the  tactile  of  a  sand-barge,  and  Ow  exertions  of  7.4)  nom  and  three  norm's,  he  was  drawn'itison  the  Slip  of  Colonel  Heanse's  mina  . STYLE=superscript  ,  where  he  was  to  remains'  few  days  fur  the  amuse amusem••iit  m••iit amusem••iit  of  ,  h••  vitriol..  He  sionwores  31  feet  19  feet  round,  9  feet  high,  feet  Melia  4  and  his  weight  is  supposeLl  to  ex ex;  ; ex;  eed  five  ion,.  Although  the  general  appearance  and  disposi disposition  tion disposition  itt  this  lirtt  ispproach  more  14)1i  aria  the  whale  than  lie  shark  tie  Is  un  , STYLE=superscript  tenhtedls.  Mk.  tor  the  Sqoalus  Ceres,  being  t  lie  Squa Squa.lus  .lus Squa.lus  Maxienas.•the  Basking  Sisal*,  or  Sun-lisli  of  Penitent.  It  thatulds  in  the  Irisis-Chatmel,  em  the  lirem  coast  of  Scotland.  I  has  been  observed  o  derive  ;Feat  pleasure  from  tasking  on  •  , STYLE=superscript  iie.surfaeie  of  the  ocean  dust*  the  heat  of  the  do  y  e  a  hence  hoth  its  EnAlish  iien.minatiott*.  The  liver  of  this  kilul  yields  on  ,:n  average,.  e'4,lts  barrels  of  oil,  bleb  is  oat  only  pure,  •ssve..i,  fie  ~-lamps,  but  is  also  much  coed  ezteruak  for  *Mit:vale  11  , STYLE=superscript  wisies.  hums,  and  rheumatic  pains.  It  is  generally  ,ten  in  pairs.  •  Accordingly,  the  mate  of  this  animal  isas  vb.  served  in  St.  Keversse  Bay,  ea  Wednesday,  by  lite  Walsing;hant  Iket  •  •  •  A  mine  of  zinc  ore  has  been  discovered  len  Lord  Ribhlesdale's  Mate.  in  Craven,.  Yorkshire,  where  Cter..  was  f  irmeily  copper  rktf,  ore  ha-  been  used  as  a  substitute  fl  , STYLE=superscript  r  %Rite  lead  in  the  catour  of  whie  a  it  attains  by  Inag  esposure—it  ..nes  not  ,  more  :Abases  :•,  and  6  not  cle4  ompois4  by  salt  water.  riis  mineral  is  found  in  4rafa  at  the  *.l/tllllll  of  caverns,  .01.,u  , STYLE=superscript  8  fag  ;atttot.  from  the  surface,  in  some  C;oeb  6  feel  thick  ;  •  olio  the  caverns  is  104  yartlit,  anothor  84  and  a  tided  40  yards  in  leagth,  and  about  14  yards  wide'.  liis  Lordship  supposes  this  mineral  has  been  sublimed  by  a  volriaa,  as  the  stoat*  surround.  .  lag  it  have  been  vitrified.  About  2000  tons  of  It  have  been  surd  P5_TB00017 r  as STYLE=superscript  :mnroo:7l:l::Tirrn  Barbadoes.  some  said  2000.  and  ethers"
