text
"JAN.  S.  subject  by  the  apostle  Paul,  in  his  first  Epistle  to  the  Church  at  My  writes  this  Apostle,  and  my  preaching,  was  not  with  enticing  words-ot  man's'  wisdom;  but  in  demonstration  of  the  spirit,  and  in  Valle  it  must  be  a  !flatted  that  Mr.  Hodgson's  lrAgtrage  is  hig!iiy  correct,  slit  one  must  regret  to  find  his  sentences  often  studiou,4  conceited  and  pompously  ornamental.  He  affects  me,  inJeed,  as  if  he  even  concerted  the  delivery  of  his  sermon  before  he  preached  it.  There  is  really  too  much  both  of  the  lamp  and  the  theatre  about  him.  La  hits  be  more  natural,  and  he  will  be  more  effectual.  Mr.  liodgson  very  frequently  apologises  for  the  freedom  be  is  required  to  use  in  his  addresses  from  the  pulpit.  must  be  permitted  to  enter  my  serious  protest  against  this  conde:icension  on  his  part,  however  it  may  consist  with  the  clerical  decorum  expected  in  the  vicinity  of  Hanover Hanoversquare;  square; Hanoversquare;  where,  perhaps,  the  preacher  is  principally  ac acceptable  ceptable acceptable  46 STYLE=superscript  Who  never  mentions  Hell  to  ears  Can  it  be,  as  observation  inclines  to  suspect,  that  Mr.  Rota  !on  betrays  unbecoming  submissiveness  to  those  whom  he  contemplates  as  his  superiors  in  society  ;  that  his  busi business  ness business  is  bowing  to  grandeur  ?—Scripture  admonishes  him,  most  certainly,  not  to  despise  human  dignities  ;  but  no nowhere  where nowhere  does  it  instruct  him  to  worship  them.  This  demea demeanor  nor demeanor  is  wholly  incompatible  with  the  dignity  of  his  sacred  office.  It  carries  with  it,  indeed,  too  much  of  the  falling  down  before  the  images  of  worldly  idolatry  !  Rome,  in  her  illustrious  times,  furnishes  to  us  an  example  not  unworthy  the  imitation  of  our  clerical  characters.  Her  sons  even  disdained  the  salutation  of  bending  to  each  other;  con conceiving  ceiving conceiving  it  improper  to  adopt  that  form  of  deference  towards  men,  which  they  were  accustomed  to  render  to  their  divinities.  .  Let  Mr.  Hodgson,  however  he  may  happen  to  differ  from  me  in  some  particulars,  attend  to  the  laudable  suggestions  of  .ambition.  Shall  a  nephew  of  the  present  Bishop  of  London,  treading  otherwise  in  the  step,  of  his  really  eminent  relative,  act  in  any  degree  inconsistently  with  the  high  vocation  unto  which  he  is  called  ?—ls  it  for  him,  ecclesiastically  elevated  as  he  already  is,  and  who,hurnanly  speaking,  has  no  peers,  Is  it  for  him  even  to  seem  to  suc succumb  cumb succumb  to  sublunary  distinctions;  and  prostrate  himself,  as  it  were,  to  those  fleeting  forms,  which  exact  the  profane  homage  of  the  mob  of  mankind  ?  46 STYLE=superscript  TRH  GREATEST  PREFERMENT  TINDER  writes  the  memorable  George  Whitfield,  in  one  of  his  Letters  to  the  late  Rev.  Cornelius  Winter,  dated  in  London,  on  the  29th  of  January,  1767,  44 STYLE=superscript  Is  TO  BE  AN  ABLE,  FAITHFUL,  SUCCESSFUL,  SUFFERING  MINISTBR  OR  THE  NEW  TESTA TESTAMENT  MENT TESTAMENT  Mr.  Hodgson  dispute  this  ?  I  think  not.  Remembering  whose  servants  they  are,  and  that  the  humblest  situation  in  the  sanctuary  is  infinitely  more  exalted  than  the  most  elevated  station  of  human  greatness,  —let  the  Ministers  of  Religion,  awfully  conscious  of  the  importance  of  their  commission,  imifor:r.:y  assert  the  dignity  with  which  they  are  e-verlastingly  invested  !  Let  them  talk  less,  but  feel  more,  of  their  truely  illustrious  destination.  It  is  not  for.  them  to  beseech,  in  the  discharge  of  their  divine  duties,  the  patience  and  forbearance  of  those  to  whom  they  are  seat  ;  or  to  apologise,  fashionably  apologise,  for  honestly  declaring  to  them  the  whole  counsel  of  God  Very.  different  is  the  errand  of  him,  by  whom  Tizc.violated  Law  speaks  out  Its  thuuders  Certified  of  his  credentials,  well  remembering  whose  authority  he  beareth  and  to  wlioui  alone  he  stands  respon responsible,  sible, responsible,  he  will  not,  even  when  In  strains  as  sweet  As  Angell  nse,  the  Ciospel  whispers  he  will  not,  even  then,  descend  to  the  littleness  of  suppli supplication.,  cation., supplication.,  This  legate,oc  the  must  better  know  both  the  import  and  infallibility  of  his  commission.  I  have  to  uotic;  Mr.  tlodgson's  manner,  or  action,  in  the  pulpit  ;  and  I  s:tail  pas::  some  general  strictures  on  the  ten ten.  . ten.  dency  of  his  preaching.  Action,  like  oratory,  is  best  when  it  is  least  artificial.  Mr.  Hodgson's  action  seems  too  careful  to  be  sufficiently  usual.  It  is  not  altogether  uninteresting,  it  is  sometimes  emphatic  ;  yet  he  has  the  awkwardness  of  mostly  holding  his  sermon-case  with  both  his  hands,  and  continually  bob bobbing  bing bobbing  it  up  and  down,  from  oft  and  on  his  cushion.  1k  also  extends  his  left,  too  much  in  preference  of  his  right,  hand.  When  most  animated,  he  has,  owing  to  the  suddenness  of  his  transitions  from  one  side  of  the  plipit  to  the  other,  the  appearance  of  bustling.  Notwithstanding  the  measured,  and  not  undignified  solemnity,  of  his  enunciation,  there  is  •  something  hurried  throughout  his  delivery.  Either  his  Sermons  are  frequently  too  long,  or  he  is  uni uniformly  formly uniformly  too  slow  in  preaching  them.  His  illustrations  might  be  rendered  more  pertinent  and  conclusive.  He  does  not  satisfactorily  explain  the  purport  of  his  positions,  nor  does  he  properly  avail  himself  of  the  divinity  by  which  they  are  sanctioned.  Aware  as  he  mnst'be  of  the  fanatical  application  of  religious  doctrines,  I  was  rather  surpris4d  to  hear  Mr.  Hodgson  exhorting  the  poor  to  look  up  to  God  only  for  the  supply  of  their  most  urgent  Wants,  without  duly  cautioning  them,  at  the  same  time,  against  .  suWering  themselves  to  repose  in  an  improvident  dependence  on  the  Divine  Providence  ;  to  which  they  so  often  too  6talfy,  though  devoutly,  abandon  themselves.  Hanover-Square,  it  might  have  been  supposed,  was  far  enough  from  the  neighborhood  of  the  Bank  of  Faith.  Mr.  Hodgson  is,  after  all,  an  esteemed  preacher  ;  and  many  of  the  defects  which  he  betrays  partly  originate,  1  am  persuaded,  in  his  over-anxious  endeavours  to  be  greatly  eminent.  His  public  labours  arc  not  only  acceptable  to  his  parishioners,  but  continue  to  attract  the  attendance  of  strangers  also.  Since,  however,  he  does  not  regularly  occupy  his  own  pulpit,  it  behoves  him  seriously  to  attend  to  the  business  of  ecclesiastical  substitutiou  t  Those  who  are  most  entitled  to  his  presence  ought  not  to  be  the  greatest  sufferers  by  his  absence.  •  Whenever,.  therefore,.  he  is  prevented  from  personally  discharging  his.frigH  duty  as  a  parish  priest,  let  him  sedulously  dele,,  ,, STYLE=superscript  atz,  like  a  popular  preacher  in  his  stead.  He  do,  , STYLE=superscript  s-,  not  fee!,  trust,  the  paltry  ambition  of  shining  by  etnitrahl.  110  worldly  consideration,  neither  policy,  nor  t,  or  eveia  friendship;  nothing  short  of  indisposition,  or  incapacity,  should  induce  one  minister  of  religion,  vilere  his  in instructions  structions instructions  are  really  desired  by  his  people,  often  to  entrust  to  another  minister  the  cure  of  the  souls  committed  to  his  sacred  charge.  I  cannot  now  enlarge  on  this  last  topic  ;  but  it  is  full  of  the  deepest  interest,  of  the  most  awful  importance.  Janutny  7,  1809.  ONESIMCS.  +  +4.  Asticus's  favour,  dated  the  27th  ult.  vsns  regularly  received.  Dr.  D.  to  whom  his  communication  refers,  has  not  been  unnoticed;  but,  on  the  contrary,  his  clerical  character  will  - STYLE=superscript  soon  be  estimated.  Any  further  hints  concerning  him  will,  if  just,  he  faithfully  considered,—provided,  and  be  it  always  such  information  or  advice  be  forwarded  in  titne.  It  cannot  come,  however,  either  too  eapficilly,  too  amply,  or  too  veedily.  The  subject  of  it  is,  at  this  moment,both  interesting  and  Zonsequential.  THE  THEATRES.  -r-  DRURY  LANE.  1. STYLE=superscript  9  On  Thursday  night  a  Comedy  in  five  acts,  entitled  Man  and  IVfe,  or  Wore  Secrets  than  was  fur  the  first  time  acted  at  Drury  Lane.  It  met  with  a  more  favourable  re reception  ception reception  than  it  has  been  our  business  to  record.  for  months,.  we  would  almost  say  years.  Deafened  by  the  peals  of  applause,  and  the  repeated  shouts  of  Bravo  the  au author  thor author  will,  perhaps,  wonder  at  our  lake-warmness,  when  we  frankly  declare  that  his  piece,  though  descyving  of  success,  might  have  possessed  more  claims  to  the  uobouaded  appro approbation  bation approbation  which  it  :i!itained.  He  will  probably  rank  us  among  the  critics  whose  hem  he  does  not  v:  ho  assumed  Discontent  as  their  Inot,lo,  and  are-  -  I  I=  I  U  P13_TB00019 .  .  JAN.  S.  .  THE  NATIONAL  itVGISTff  ....._..  ,  Y  9  ,  ~.  __  _  _  IC  _  -  -  .  --•  •  -  -  •  -  ___.  ----  ...  ..........  - STYLE=superscript  ess:  ....  subject  by  the  apostle  Paul,  in  his  first  Epistle  to  the  Pulpit  :  and  1  snail  pas.;  some  general  strictures  on  the  ten  - STYLE=superscript  Church  at  My  writes  this  Apostle,  deucy  of  his  preaching.  '  and  my  preaching,  was  not  with  enticing  words.ot  man's  '  Action,  like  oratory,  is  bet  when  it  is  least  artificial.  wisdom  ;  but  in  demonstration  of  the  spirit,  and  in  pee  i  Mr.  Hodgson's  action  seems  too  careful  to  be  sufficiently  VSTI-.lle  it  must  be  a  !tnitted  that  Mr.  Hodgson's  l-sguage  is  ,:isual.  it  is  eot  altogether  iminteresting,  it  is  sometimes  hig!ley  , STYLE=superscript  correct,  slat  one  must  regret  to  find  his  sentences  emphatic;  yet  he  has  the  awkwardness  of  mostly  holding-  I,'i  often  studiousiy  conceited  and  pompously  ornamental.  He  his  sermon-case  with  both  his  bands,  and  continually  bob-  i  .  affects  me,  indeed,  as  if  he  even  concerted  the  delivery  o  f  hing  it  up  and  dovvu,  from  offend  on  his  cushion.  Ile  also  his  sermon  before  he  preached  it.  There  is  really  too  extends  his  left,  too  much  in  preference  of  his  right,  hand.  much  both  of  the  lamp  and  the  theatre  about  him.  Let  When  most  animated,  he  has,  owing  to  the  suddenness  of  him  be  more  natural,  and  he  will  be  more  effectual.  his  traiisitions  from  one  side  of  the  p  iipit  to  the  other,  the  l  i  Mr.  Hodgson  very  frequently  apologises  for  the  freedom  appearance  of  bustling.  No  twithstaaJiu STYLE=superscript  g  the STYLE=superscript  measured, STYLE=superscript  be  is  required  to  use  in  his  addresses  from  the  pulpit.  I  and  not  und  i STYLE=superscript  gn  ifie STYLE=superscript  d  sotemuity,  of  his  enunciation,  there  is  •  4  must  be  permitted  to  enter  my  serious  protest  against  this  something  hurried  thr  ou STYLE=superscript  g  hout STYLE=superscript  his STYLE=superscript  deliver STYLE=superscript  y  . STYLE=superscript  conde:icension  on  his  part,  however  it  may  consist  with  the  Either  his  Sermons  are  frequently  too  long,  or  he  is  uni-  clerical  decorum  expected  in  the  vicinity  of  Hanover-  formly  too  slow  in  preaching  them.  His  illustrations  square;  where,  perhaps,  the  preacher  is  principally  ac-  might  be  rendered  more  pertinent  and  conclesive.  He  ceptable  does  not  satisfactorily  explain  the  purport  of  his  positiogs,  nor  does  he  properly  avail  himself  of  the  divinity  by  whirls  46 STYLE=superscript  Who  never  mentions  Hell  to  ears  they  are  sanctioned.  Aware  as  he  trust  be  of  the  fanatical  Can  it  be,  as  observation  inclines  to  suspect,  that  Mr.  application  of  religious  doctrines,  I  was  rather  surpris4d  Rods  !on  betrays  unbecoming  submissiveness  to  those  whom  to  hear  Mr.  Hodgson  exhorting  the  poor  to  look  up  to  God  he  contemplates  as  his  superiors  in  society  ;  that  his  busi-  only  for  the  supply  of  their  most  urgent  wants,  without  ness  is  bowing  to  grandeur  ?—Scripture  admonishes  him,  duly  cautioning  them,  at  the  same  time,  against.  suffering  iki  most  certainly,  not  to  despise  human  dignities;  but  no-  themselves  to  repose  in  an  improvident  dependence  on  the  where  does  it  instruct  him  to  worship  them.  This  demea-  Divine  Providence  ;  to  which  they  so  often  too  6talfy,  nor  is  wholly  incompatible  with  the  dignity  of  his  sacred  though  devoutly,  abandon  themselves.  Hanover-Square,  office.  It  carries  with  it,  indeed,  too  much  of  the  falling  it  might  have  been  supposed,  was  far  enceigh  from  the  down  before  the  images  of  worldly  idolatry  !  Rome,  in  her  neighborhood  of  the  Bank  of  Faith.  illustrious  times,  furnishes  to  us  an  example  not  unworthy  Mr.  Hodgson  is,  after  all,  an  esteemed  preacher  ;  and  the  imitation  of  our  clerical  characters.  Her  sons  even  many  of  the  defects  which  he  betrays  partly  originate,  1  disdained  the  salutation  of  bending  to  each  other;  con-  am  persuaded,  in  his  over-anxious  endeavours  to  be  greatly  ceiving  it  improper  to  adopt  that  form  of  deference  towards  eminent.  His  public  labours  arc  not  only  acceptable  to  I  men,  which  they  were  accustomed  to  render  to  their  his  parishioners,  but  continue  to  attract  the  attendance  divinities.  of  strangers  also.  Since,  however,  he  does  not  regularly  .  Le!  Mr.  Hodgson,  however  he  may  happen  to  differ  from  occupy  his  own  pulpit,  it  behoves  hiin  seriously  to  attend  me  in  souse  particulars,  attend  to  the  laudable  suggestions  to  the  business  of  ecclesiastical  substitution  1  Those  who  ,  of  .ambition.  Shall  a  nephew  of  the  present  Bishop  of  are  most  entitled  to  his  presence  ought  not  to  be  the  London,  treading  otherwise  in  the  steps  of  his  really  '  greatest  sufferers  by  his  absence.  '  Whenever,.  therefore,.  eminent  relative,  act  in  any  degree  inconsistently  with  the  he  is  prevented  from  personally  discharging  his-high  dtit'v  high  vocation  unto  which  he  is  called  ?—ls  it  for  him,  as  a  parish  priest,  let  him  sedulously  delegate:  %owe!  tiie,..e  .  ecclesiastically  elevated  as  he  already  is,  and  wholhumanly  like  a  popular  preacher  in  his  stead.  He  do,  , STYLE=superscript  s-,  not  fee!,  I  speaking,  has  no  peers,  Is  it  for  him  even  to  seem  to  suc-  trust,  the  paltry  ambition  of  shining  by  contrast.  .1%o•  cumb  to  sublunary  distinctions;  and  prostrate  himself,  as  worldly  consideration,  neither  policy,  nor  itate;tist,  or  even  it  were,  to  those  fleeting  forms,  which  exact  the  profane  friendship;  nothing  short  of  indisposition,  or  incapacity,  .  homage  of  the  mob  of  mankind  ?  should  induce  one  minister  of  religion,  vilere  his  in-  ,  TEE  GREATEST  PREFERMENT  TINDER  HEAVEN,  writes  structions  are  really  desired  by  his  people,  often  to  entrust  the  memorable  George  Whitfield,  is  one•of  his  Letters  to  to  another  minister  the  cure  of  the  souls  committed  to  his  -  the  late  Rev.  Cornelius  Winter,  dated  in  London,  on  the  sacred  charge.  I  cannot  now  enlarge  on  this  last  topic  ;  29th  of  January,  1767,  TO  BE  AN  ABLE,  FAITHFUL,  but  it  is  full  of  the  deepest  interest,  of  the  most  awful  SUCCESSFUL,  SUFFERING  MINISTER  OW  THE  NEW  TESTA-  importance.  MINT  Mr.  Hodgson  dispute  this  ?  I  think  not.  January  7,  1809.  ONESIMCS.  Remembering  whose  servants  they  are,  and  that  the  +t+  Asticus's  favour,  dated  the  27th  ult.  ryas  regularly  humblest  situation  in  the  sanctuary  is  infinitely  more  received.  Dr.  D.  to  whom  his  commuiii  i  (:  i  i  s  ti  (  o  l  i  er  i  refers,  li  rs  :  h  a  r  l  t  .  s  ac  i  t  i  e  o  r  t  exalted  than.  the  most  elevated  station  of  human  greatness  , STYLE=superscript  been STYLE=superscript  unnoticed; STYLE=superscript  but, STYLE=superscript  on STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  contrary, STYLE=superscript  —let  the  Ministers  of  Religion,  awfully  conscious  of  the  will  'soon  be  .  estimated.  .Any  further  hints  coucerring  hint  will,  if,  just,  he  faithfully  considered,—provided,  and  'be  it  always  importance  of  their  commission,  imior,r.:y  assert  the  g  :.  vided  such  information  or  advice  be  forwarded  in  time.  dignity  with  which  they  are  everlastii  .  tgly  invested  !  Let  l STYLE=superscript  p STYLE=superscript  it  cannot  ' STYLE=superscript  come,  however,  either  too  elpficilii,  too  amply,  or  them  talk  less,  but  feel  more,  of  their  true!y  illustrious  too  eeility.  The  subject  fit  is,  at  this  timinctii,both  iuteresting  i  destination.  It  is  not  for.  them  to  beseech,  in  the  discharge  and  c  onsequential.  •  of  their  divine  duties,  the  patience  and  forbearance  of  those  ,VINIMIII  to  whom  they  are.  seat;  or  to  apologise,  fashionably  THE  THEATRES.  apologise,  for  honestly  declaring  to  them  the  whole  --sos—  counsel  of  God  Very.  different  is  the  errand  of  him,  by  DRURY  LANE.  whom  On  Thursday  night  a  Comedy  in  five  acts,  entitled  Man  •  The  .violated  Law  speaks  out  and  Wife,  or  iWorc  Secrets  than  was  for  the  first  time  Its  thunders  '  ,  acted  at  Drury  Lane.  It  met  with  a  more  favourable  re-  Certified  of  his  credentials,  well  remembering  whose  ception  than  it  has  been  our  business  to  record.  for  months,  .  authority  he  beareth  and  to  whom  alone  he  stanus  respon-  we  would  almost  say  years.  Deafened  by  the  peals  of  -  Bible,  he  will.  not,  even  when  .  1  applause,  and  the  repeated  shouts  of  Bravo  the  au-  In  traiiis  as  sweet  I  thor  will,  perhaps,  wonder  at  our  Luke-warmness,  when  we  66 STYLE=superscript  As  Angels  use,  the  6  ospel  whispers  ;  I  frankly  , STYLE=superscript  declare  that  his  piece,  though  deserving  of  success,  he  will  not,  even  then,  descend  to  the  l  ittleness STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  su STYLE=superscript  pp  li- STYLE=superscript  .  I  mtght  have  possessed  more  claims  to  the  uliboileded  appro.  cation.,  This  legate,oC  the  must  better  know  both,  !  bation  which  it  .i!itained.  He  will  probably  rank  us  an:ong  .  ,  Ilie  import  and  infallibility  of  his  commission.  i  the  .  critical.  whose;  Item  he  does  not  1.'  , STYLE=superscript  h0  1t3...ii  .  ,  .  '  I  have  to  notice  Mr.  Hodgson's  manner,  Or  action,  in  the  ,;  assumed  - STYLE=superscript  Discontent  a  s  their  InottO,  and  are-  so  iiii  -  P13_TB00020 I"
