text
"•  •  ••••  •  7  •  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  lingaeucy  almost  in  the  highest  rank  of  the  state,  and  the  limply  perseverance  to  follow  up  that  arraignment  with  ir irtefrogahle  tefrogahle irtefrogahle  proofs  of  guilt.  These  were  such  as  to  carry  Con..  V  iermll  to  tile  mind  of  toe  country  w  herever  the  influence  of  Mi Ministers  nisters Ministers  ti,d  not  prevail,  and  in  opposition  to  the  vote  or  a  map mapri'y  ri'y mapri'y  i  Parliament.  But  notwithstanding  that  vote,  the  High  Per Peroc.&amp;,;e,  oc.&amp;,;e, Peroc.&amp;,;e,  for  w  hose  vindication  it  was  passed,  in  opposition  to  all  tv  ..nice,  so  strongly  felt  the  sense  impressed  upon  the  country  1)  the  proofs  against.  hint,  that  lie  thought  proper  to  resign  his  orLice,  anti  thereby  not  only  to  ail.oit  the  proofs,  but  to  reproach  the  votes  of  the  persons  who  chose  to  suet  ieee  their  ow  n  inte integrity  grity integrity  and  conviction  fur  the  mere  purpose  of  his  vindication.  ill  r.  Goodbehere  a  oncleiled  ire  proposing,  for  the  adoption  of  the  Court,  the  follow  log  Resolut  hots  :  1.  Resolved,  That  this  Court  has,  on  frequent  occasions,  evit,ced  its  detestation  of  the  Public  Atm.:es  which  have  been  found  to  exist  in  various  departments  of  the  State,  and  it  cannot  but  equally  condemn  the  corrupt  practices  developed  by  the  late  Investigation  before  the  Comment-  House  of  Parliament.  2.  Resolved,  That  Ciwyllim  Lloyd  Wardle,  Esq.  having,  un unawed  awed unawed  by  Nlinisteoal  threats,  exhibited  serious  Charges  against  the  late  Commander  in  Chief,  which  have  been  clearly  substan substantiated,  tiated, substantiated,  and  which  have  in  fact  hid  treed  his  Royal  Highness  to  re resign  sign resign  a  situation  of.which  he  is  now,rthy,  is  entitled  to  the  esteem  and  gratitude  of  this  Court  and  the  Country.  :;.  'Resolved,  That  the  Thanks  of  this  Court,  and  the  Freedom  of  this  City,  in  a  (hold  Box,  of  the  value  of  100  Gaineas,  be  pi-es:noted  to  C;  wyllim  Lloyd  Wardle,  Eq.  in  grateful  testimony  of  tae  high  sense  they  entertain  of  the  zeal,  intrei)idity,  and  pa pat  t pat  114.6  :rn,  which  he  so  eminently  evinced  in  that  arduous  and  audahle  undertak'N.  The  other  Resolutions,  consisting  of  three,  went  to  thank  Sir  Francis  Burdett,  Bart.  Lotil  Folksioue,  Samuel  Whitbread,  l's  1.  Sir  Samuel  Mimi!:  v.  Knt.  General  Ferguson,  Ilarvey  Cltris— Cltristient  tient Cltristient  Connie,  Esq.  arid  the  rest  of  the  ;Vernbers  consti constituted  tuted constituted  the  minOrity  ;  to  declare  that  in  the  vote  of  the  majority,  there  was  ground  to  apprehend  it  r.  , STYLE=superscript  tist  have  arisen  from  influ influence;  ence; influence;  an  1  to  state  the  necessity  of  a  radicitl  and  spectly  reform.  }le  then  moved  the  first  Resolution,  which  was  ably  seconded  by  r.  :\lll.l  - STYLE=superscript  Lit,  in  a  short  speech.  Mr.  DIXON  perfectly  agreed  in  a  Resolution  of  Thanks  to  Mr.  Wanlle,  and  censured  strongly  the  immorality  of  the  Duke  of  York's  connection  as  proved  vv  it  h  Mrs.  Clarke.  Fie  ho‘v ho‘vcver,  cver, ho‘vcver,  totally  denied  thet  any  privity  or  connivance  was  proved  against  him  personally  in  the  sentulalous  tratlic  which  came  out  in  evidence;  and  lie  deprecated  the  whole  of  the  remaining  Re Resoluf  soluf Resoluf  *ins  as  unnecessary.  Mr.  Deputy  EM  t.n  vek:mwledged  that  he  was  one  of  those  who  signed  tile  tion,  merely  with  a  view  of  thanking  Mr.  'Wardle  for  his  meritorious  conduct  ;  but  he  was  by  no  means  aware  that  this  was  to  be  made  a  party  question.  He  saw  no  neceiiy  for  any  other  Resolution.  Alde7onto  Co  ns:  spoke  in  . STYLE=superscript  support  of  the  Resolutions,  31r.  Gal  FFITIIS  supported  the  Reso!  uti  oils  in  a  speech  of  much  Sir  C.  Paten  took  the  opportunity  of  expressing  those  senti sentitne.its  tne.its sentitne.its  hi  vi!:dic.ltiou  of  hiaiself,  and  of  his  worthy  colle:gtt..s  (Sir  ‘Villia  , STYLE=superscript  :s  Curtis,  nod  Alderman  Shaw  not  heo.:g  present)  for  toe  votes  tney  had  given  upon  this  sooiert,  and  whi,:h,  he  slid,  Ere`  was  prevented  from  lotering  before  the  Livery  on  Saturda),  by  the  clamour  of  the  crowd  assealbled  upon  that  occasion.  WAIMM.t..;  sup  domed  at  considerable  •lerkth  the  Reso Resolutions,  lutions, Resolutions,  and  contended  for  t  ite  nece  , STYLE=superscript  sity  imposed  upon  the  ror ror•  • ror•  vocation  of  Loa:',ln,  of  expres  , STYLE=superscript  iug  their  opinions  upon  this  sun sunjcct,  jcct, sunjcct,  as  they  always  had  been  in  the  habit  of  doing,  - STYLE=superscript  in  order  to  •  •  give  a  tone  and  example  to  the  whole  conotry.  Alderman  PRI  NSE  P  supported  the  Re,olutions,  and  thought  *they  contained  such  traisars  as  admitted  of  no  coAradietion.  Afar  sonic  further  discussinn  between  Mr.  Whehle  and  other  ipeaki.rs,  the  lirt  and  second  resolutions  were  put  and  carried  unanimously,  and  also  the  third,  with  the  dissenting.  voices  of  Mr.  Dixon  and  Mr.  Kimble,  upon  the  ground  of  economy,  re-  Fpecting  the  gold  box.  .  The  of.xt  resolution  was  carried  unanimously.  Upon  the  Fifth  Resolution,  r.  Alterman  Birch,  in  an  ani animated  mated animated  speech  e  xpre  s  sed  his  decided  opposition  to  the  assumption  of  any  privilege  on  the  part  of  that  assembly,  or  any  other  in  this  kingdom,  to  ceosare  the  decisions  of  the  House  of  Com Commons,  mons, Commons,  or  to  impute  wrong  or  corrupt  motives  to  the  Representa Representatives  tives Representatives  of  the  People  in  any  decision,  which  by  the  vote  of  a-ina a-inajority  jority a-inajority  tl3ey  should  adept.  Socha  Resolution,  theref,re  niightlead  to  the  mos,  lamentable  consequences  in  the  excitement  of  popu popu.4ir  .4ir popu.4ir  tumult.  No  practical  good  could  possibly  arise  from  it;  but  r  '  on  the  contrary  much  mischief;  and  if  the  people  once  asstinied  out  of  doors  the  privilege  of  censuring  the  conduct  of  t'arliament  there  would  be  an  end  of  the  ConstitutiOn  H-that  venerable  fa fabric  bric fabric  would  be  shaken  to  its  fouudation  and  overwhelm  them  its  its  ruins,  .  Mr.  Birch  was  ably  supported  by  Mr  KQrnble,  Mr.  Stakes,  AlderinanAtki:as,  and  Mr.  Box.  Mr.  WA  urn  xi  AN  replied.  He  said,  that  from  the  like  senti sentiments  ments sentiments  which  he  had  uniformly  heard  from.  the  worthy  Alder  man  upon  various  occasion;,  he  had  preparLl  to  except  theni  now,  and  had  therefore  fortified  himself  to  meet  his  arguments  upon  much  stronger  authorities  than  his  own  ;—they  should  be  found  in  Judge  Blackstone,  and  other  great  authorities  quoted  by  that  author  upon  the  doctrines  of  the  constitution  of  this  . STYLE=superscript  country,  namely,  Justice  Hale,  Montesquieu,  and  other  great  authorities,  by  whom  the  Right  of  the  people  to  petition  Par Par!lament,  !lament, Par!lament,  and  to  express  their  sentiments  uprin  public  grievances  ?  '  was  recognized.  Baron  Montesquieu  in  particular  stated,  that  Greece,  Rome,  Carthage,  and  other  great  states  of  antiquity,  had  successively  fallen  to  ruin;  that  England  would  also  fall  to  ruin  in  its  turn  ;  and  that  this  ruin  would  Occur  whenever  the'  representative  body  should  beCome  more  corrupt  than  the  execu executive.  tive. executive.  Such  had  been  the  source  of  ruin  to  many  modern  nations  of  Europe  in  our  own  day;  and  what,  he  world  ask,  could  be  the  value  of  the  constitutional  right  of  petition  or  discussion,  if  their  right  only  allowed  them  to  petition,  or  to  discuss  the  conduct  of  the  other  two  branches  of  the  Constitution,  the  Crown  and  the  Lords,  while  they  were  to  view  with  silence  the  misconduct  of  the  Com  Mons,  by  whom  alone  their  liberties  could  be  ruised  ?  It  had  been  said  by  Mr.  De  Lolrue,  the  his historian  torian historian  of  our  Constitution,  that  the  House  of  Colon:ions,  in  their  omnipotence,  could  do  almost  any  thing,  except  malting  a  man  a  woman,  nra  woman  a  man.  He  had,  hOwever,  recently  seen  them  unke  a  black  man  a  white  one,  and  therefdre  he  did  not  doubt  their  privilege  by  the  same  means  to  vote  a  change  of  sexes.  The  previhus  Question  had  been  moved  by  Mr.  Dixon,  which  being  first  put,  the  Court  divided=--Against  it,  $  Alderman,  6Q  Chnitrioner  , STYLE=superscript  ,  2  'fellers,  70—For  it,  .4  41dermen,  1 STYLE=superscript  28  Commoners;  i  Teller,  2:3—Majority  against  the  previous  question  :;7.  At  this  time  stran;ers  were  excluded,  and  the  Ciiiirt  continued  a  considerable  time  in  discussion.  We  imilerst;:ild  that  an  Ad Adjournment  journment Adjournment  was  moved  and  negatived  w  itliott  I  a  divisiuu.  .  Au  amendment  was  then  moved  by  Mclennan  ATK  IN`4  l  kich  on  a  division  was  uegatiYetl,—Ayes,  5  A1(4.0114111,  20  Commoners,  1  Teller,  32—Noes,  7  Aldermen,  52  Coihnioners;  2  Tellers,  61--Thjority  29.  The  original  Resolution  was  then  put  and  carried,  as  was  thq  siibacquent  Resulntion,  after  which  the  Court  adjourned."
