text
"MARCH  5.  had  stained  themselves  with  blood  during  the  insurrection,  have  been  arrested.  Admiral  Obregon,  whom  the  people  had  ar arrested  rested arrested  during  the  insurrection,  has  heeu  put  at  the  head  of  the  arsenal.  There  have  been  found  in  the  port  three  vessels  of  112  guns,  two  of  88.,  one  0f74,  two  of  61,  three  frigates,  and  a  con considerable  siderable considerable  number  of  corvettes,  brigs,  and  unarmed  vessels,  more  than  1500  pieces  of  cannon  of  every  size,  and  ammunition  of  all  kinds.  It  is  probable  that  but  for  the  precipitate  retreat  of  the  English,  and  the  affair  of  the  16th,  they  would  have  occupied  Ferrol,  and  seized  this  beautiful  squadron.  The  Military  and  Naval  Officers  have  taken  the  oath  to  King  Joseph  with  the  greatest  enthusiasm  What  they  relate  of  their  sufferings  from  he  lowest  classes  oft  he  people  and  the  English,  is  inconceivable.  Order  reigns  in  Gallicia,  and  the  authority  of  the  King  is  re reestablished  established reestablished  in  this  Province,  one  of  the  most  considerable  of  the  Spanish  Monarchy.  General  Laborde  has  found  at  Comma,  on  the  sea-shore,  seven  pieces  of  cannon,  which  the  English  had  buried  on  the  16th,  not  being  able  to  take  them  away.  La  nomana,  übandoned  by  the  English  and  his  own  troops,  has  Ned  wit!►  500  men,  in  order  to  throw  himself  into  Andalusia.  There  remained  at  Lisbon  only  about  4  or  5000  Englishmen.  AK  the  hospitals  and  all  the  magazines  wefeembarked,  and  the  garrison  - STYLE=superscript  were  preparing  to  abt;don  this  nation,  as  indignant  at  the  Perfidy  of  the  English,  as  they  are  disgusted  by  the  difference  of  manners  and  religion,  by  the  continual  and  brutal  intetn intetnperance  perance intetnperance  of  the  English  troops,  and  that  arrogance  and  ill-founded  pride  which  render  this  nation  odious  to  the  IMPERIAL  PARLIAMENT.  HOUSE  OF  LORDS.  Monday,  Feb.  27,  149  was  to  be  dreaded  that  the  Regency  established  there  did  not  meet  the  wishes  Of  the  people  of  that  country.  which  was  the  more  to  be  regretted,  as  that  Regency  was  appointed  under  the  immediate  sanction  of  Ministers  here.  He  concluded  with  moving  for  an  Address  to  his  Majesty,  praying  that  he  would  be  graciously  pleased  to  direct  that  a  letter  from  Lord  Visconti,  Castlereagh  to  Sir  Hew  Dalrymple,  and  dated  the  4th  of  Sept.  NOS,  con containing  taining containing  certain  enclosures,  with  copies  of  those  enclosures,  re re-4pecting  4pecting re-4pecting  the  appointment  of  a  Regency  in  Portugal,  might  he  !aid  before  the  House.  Lord  LIVFRpoot.  assured  the  Noble  Earl  that  individually  he  could  have  no  objection  to  lay  before  the  House  all  the  donw  meats  and  all  the  papers  relating  to  Portugal  arid  Spain,  which  lie  or  his  colleagues  were  in  possession  of,  and  in  a  few  days  all  that  were  proper  to  meet  the  public  eye  Should  be  presented  to  that  !louse;  hut  the  letter  and  enclosure  in  question  were  of  that  description  that,  consistent  with  our  duty  to  the  Prince  Regent,  and  consistent  with  the  honour  anti  character  of  this  country  ,  could  not  be  produced,  lie  undertook  to  lay  all  requisite  'tapers  before  the  'louse  respecting  the  several  topics  touched  upon  by  , STYLE=superscript  the  Noble  Earl,  and  suggested  the  forbearance  of  pressing  his  motion,  at  least  until  there  documents  should  be  laid  on  the  table.  Adjourned.  HOUSE  OF  COMMONS.  Mont*,  Feb.  27.  Lard  Ptnr  v  hronght  up  the  Report  of  the  Wexford  Election  Committee,  stating  that  the  Committee  had  found  Ahrl  Ram,  E  N  .  duly  elected  for  the  said  county,  and  that  the  Petition,  so  far  as  respected  him,  was  frivolous  and  vexatious,  They  had  also  found  William  Congreve  A  Ilcock,•  lisq.  dug  elected  ;  and  that  the  Petition,  so  far  as  respected  him,  was  not  frivolous  and  vexatious.  For  the  Royal  Military  As  lam  at  Chelsea  -  For  the  ttoyal  Military  College  -  -  l'or  retired  and  officiating  Chaplains  -  _  For  Pensions  to  Children  of  deceased  Officers  -  Aleclicines  and  Hospital  Expences  L.'23,359  16.913  24,9  2  14:300  115,0'21  DISTILLERY  BILL.  Sir  Joni  NEWPORT  opposed  the  Bill,  as  calculated  to  injure  the  people  of  Ireland.  111!  denied  what  had  been  said  on  a  fortner  evening,  by  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  for  Ireland,  that  the  people  of  that  country  were  disposed  to  resist  the  operation  of  the  Laws.  lie  could  not  believe  that  the  people  were  na naturally  turally naturally  disposed  to  resist  the  laws  ;  but  he  wished  that  the  Legis Legislatnre  latnre Legislatnre  would  consider  whether  the  laws  that  had  been  made  had  been  judiciously  enacted.  The  Right  Hon.  Centlcanan  concluded  w:th  moving,  that  the  Report  should  tie  again  referred  to  the  Committee.  The  House  tlnnt  divided,  when  the  numbers  ap appeared—Ayesl99  peared—Ayesl99 appeared—Ayesl99  I  Noes  61  1  Majority  in  favour  of  the  Bill  be besng  sng besng  recommitted,  38.  FLAX  st:En.  Mr,  FosTr.n  moved  a  Reso:ution,  for  granting  a  Bounty  of  ss.  per  bushel  on  the  first  50,000  bushels  in►l►orted  into  Ireland.  Whe  Resolution  was  agreed  to—Adjoprned."
