text
"PRICE  OF  STOCKS  YESTERDAY.  3  per  .  Cent.  Cons.  Bonds  11,  12  pm.-4  prr  Cent,  ConF.,  1431  i-3  •  per  Cent.  Reduced  611.  —Long  Annuities  11-1114-olnnium  1  10,  13  pm.—Lottery  Tickets  aft2l  19s—Cor.soli  for  Amounts  67i.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  Lonbon,  SUNDAY,  MARCH  5,  1809.  POLITIC4L  SUENTS  OF  THS  11  . STYLE=superscript  EEC,  Dutch  Papers  were  on  Friday  received  in  town  to  the  Ist  inst.  They  confirm  the  important  intelligence  that  Peace  has  been  concluded  between  our  Government  and  the  PORTE.  This  event,  so  auspicious  in  the  present  state  of  the  Continent,  and  so  interesting  in  a  commercial  point  of  view,  took  place  .on  the  sth  of  January.  In  consequence  of  which  all  the  ports  in  the  Turkish  Empire  were  imme immediately  diately immediately  opened  to  British  ships.  Mr.  ADAIR,  who  Con Conducted  ducted Conducted  the  negociation,  evinced,  during  the  course  of  that  delicate  and  difficult  transaction,  a  rare  degree  of  pru prudence,  dence, prudence,  zeal,  and  diplomatic  skill.  He  possesses,  perhaps,  a  more  various  knowledge  of  continental  politics,  than  any  Diplomatist  we  now  have.  We  wish  we  had,  in  Ibis  inter interesting  esting interesting  juncture,  a  man  of  his  talents  at  Vienna  ;  or  that  it  were  possible  to  transfer  him  to  that  Court,  where,  during  kis  last  mission,  the  most  arduous  and  delicate  that  can  be  imagined,  he  conciliated,  in  the  highest  degree,  the  gene!  ral  esteem,  and  the  confidence  of  the  Cabinet,  Every  article  in  those  Papers  allude  to  a  War  between  France  and  Austria  as  inevitable,  The  extracts  they  con contain  tain contain  from  the  French  and  German  Journals,  are  replete  with  similar  speculations;  and,  from  a  retrospective  view  of  the  occurrences  which  preceded  the  two  last  campaigns  in  Germany,  which  bear  so  striking  a  similarity  with  the  present  demonstrations  in  that  country,  we  are  fully  justified  in  believing  that  hostilities  arc  on  the  immediate  point  of  commencing.  It  the  accounts  in  the  private  letters  can  be  relied  on,  which  state  that  the  arrogant,  the  suspicious  tyrant,  exacts  of  the  Jml►eror  of  AUSTRIA  the  humiliating  condition,  that  he  4hould  disband  kis  new  levies,  and  reduce  his  military  force  tt  44,000  men,  and  denonnceq  instant  hostilities,  if  this  proposal,  which  has  no  parallel  fur  P8_TB00021 r"
