text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER,  Charleston,  which  reach  to  the  19th  ult.  Front  these  we  learn  that  the  .President  has  sanctioned  a  13t11,  b)  hicl.  vessels  were  permitted  to  proceed  after  the  litth  to  stir+  States  as  arc  not  considered  as  belligerent  ;  bonds,  double  the  ;due  of  the  cargo  being  first  given,  that  the  ships  will  nut  proceed  to  Great  Britain,  or  France,  their  colonies  and  dependent  State:.  A  most  extraordinar)  feature  in  this  Bill  is,  that  Holland  is  considered  as  an  in inderendent  derendent inderendent  State,  and  conscquently  not  included  in  the  Non Nonintercourse  intercourse Nonintercourse  Act.  which  was  to  IniVe  the  effect  of  Law  un  the'22oth  ult.  it  is  very  probable  that  Mr..  MA  OD  M.SON  will,  in  time,  extend  tYs  favour  to  VI  ',lei,  Route,  and  Tuscany,  which  arc,  at  least,  as  independent  Holland,  and  every  outer  State  along  the  Cords  of  the  Mediterranean  and  .Bal .Baltie,  tie, .Baltie,  connected  with,  or  occupiedobv,  the  enemy.  This  in insulting  sulting insulting  partiality  to  France  is  but  too  obvioas;  but  a  firm  adherence  to  our  Orders  in  Council,  is  sufficient  to  coun counteract  teract counteract  its  effects.  The  following  letter  contains  the  parti particulars:—  culars:— particulars:—  is  Charleston,  March  IS,  1809.  hope  our  administration  will  have  temper  and  patience  as  to  measures  respecting  this  country,  which  must  fall  in  with  our  views,  if  they  only  act  with  moderation  with  regard  to  the  Orders  in  Council,  as  they  may  operate  on  American  ships  bound  to  Holland  (now  declared  here  an  independent  spate).  Let  our  c•ruizers  speak  and  endorse  their  papert,  hut  allow  the  ships  to  proceed  on  their  voyage.  The  Berlin  Decree  will  then  d  )  their  business,  and  condemn  them  as  good  prizes,  and  the  consequence  will  he  a  declaration  of  war  by  America  against  France,  and  an  alliance  with  Great  Britain.  Pray  inculcate  this  doctrine  ;  for  be  assured  a  good  understand understanding  ing understanding  stith  t  hi:  country  is  of  great  consequence  to  England.  You  will  see  by  the  American  Papers,  Mr.  .Maddison's  inaugural  Speech,  aml  the  clauses  for  raking  the  Embargo;  you  will,  of  course  see  that  Holland  is  considered  an  independent  power,  thon4ll  we  know  she  is  substantially  under  the  dominion  of  France  :  therefore,  if  we  enforce  the  Orders  in  Council  on  this  point,  awl  carry  in  their  trade,  there  will  be  a  declaration  of  war  against  England  and  union  with  France.  11  ,, STYLE=superscript  t  if  we  pass  them  and  only  endorse  their  papers,  it  will  Se  J  tit  for  the  French,  and  the  contrary  will  be  the  effect  —a  ith  France  and  friendship  with  England.  Let  our  Ministers  consider  the  quetion,  which  will  be  more  advan:ag  - STYLE=superscript  enus  for  their  country  Two  Gottenburg  mails  arrived  on  Wednesday.  They  do  mot  confirm  the  expeetatioos  which  were  raised  in  come comequeuee  queuee comequeuee  of  the  opposition  manifested  by  the  Dalecarliaus  to  the  dethronement  ofGustavus.  The  faction  which  brought  that  event  to  an  issue,  continae  to  guard,  with  the  greatest  severity,  the  deposed  Sovereign  ;  and  that  unfo••  tunate  Monarch  has  been  removed  from  his  late  confine confine-went  -went confine-went  to  the  Castle  of  Gripsholm,  as  a  place  of  greater  security.  lie  is  treated  with  such  nifinnviri  severity,  that  lie  is  aot  even  allowed  to  receive  the  visit  of  his  spouse  and  children.  From  this  measure  we  are  inclined  to  believe  that  some  project  is  in  agitation  to  voilide  the  supreme  autho authority  rity authority  exclusively  to  the  QUEEN;  a  measure  which  may  contribute  to  conciliate  Russia  and  France,  as  she  is  sis!er  to  the  EMPRESS  or  Russia,  and  related  by  marriage  to  Madame  BONA  PARTE.  The  Army  of  Adlersparre,  which  first  evinced  a  spirit  of  rebellion,  has  arrived  at  Stockholm,  and  received  with  greater  distinction,  than  if  it  had  succes..fully  defended  the  country  against  foreign  invasion.  Official  dispatches  were  received  on  Wednesday  from  Martinique  and  from  Spain.  They  announce  the  mosi  pleasing  intelligence.  The  former  refer  to  the  opera operations  tions operations  of  our  army  during  the  siege  of  Fort  Bourbon,  and  to  the  capitulation  of  that  important  post.  A  . STYLE=superscript  Gazette  Extraordinary  has  been  published  containing  the  parti particulars-of  culars-of particulars-of  an  expedition,  which  does  equal  honour  to  our  army  and  navy  :  It  will  be  seen  in  another  part  of  our  paper.  We  have  on  this  occasion,  another  proof  of  the  tremendous  effects  of  our  artillery  ;  which  has  now  acquired  a  decided  superiority  over  that  of  every  other  4►eople.  1  7 STYLE=superscript  ,itil  lately  that  of  the  French  has  been  vaunted  as  the  best  in  Europe;  but  we  have  btu  murud  by  men  qualified  to  APRIL  16.  jadge,  zind  who  have  witnessed  the  effects  of  both,--that  ours  is,  in  every  sense,  vastly  superior  to  that  of  the  enemy.  With  a  little  perseverance  on  our  side,  and  with  Ministers  capable  and  upright  enough  to  manage  effica efficacious!)  cious!) efficacious!)  and  conscientiously  the  affair  4  of  the  country,  we  see  no  reason  to  doubt  but  every  branch  of  our  Military  Department  may  be  carried  to  a  degree  of  perfection,  NVIIICII  would  ecuder  our  Military  as  plepuderaut  as  our  Navy.  The  point  of  principal  interest  at  present  is  Rochefort  harhour,  from  whence  tidings  of  the  greatest  moment  may  be  daily  expected.  The  last  letters  which  have  been  re received  ceived received  from  thet  a  were  brought  by  the  Tonnant,  and  some  of  them  are  of  so  late  a  date  as  the  Bth  instaipt.  The  French  fleet  had  not  at  that  time  been  attacked  by  our  squadron,  for  want  of  the  asiistance  of  the  fire-ships,  for  whose  arrival,  as  the  enemy  were  hourly  endeavouring  to  f;  et  tarther  in  shore.  Admiral  Gambier  had,  it  is  said,  re resalved  salved resalved  to  wait  no  longer,  but  was  upon  the  point  of  coin coinnivecing  nivecing coinnivecing  his  operaroas  with  the  means  which  he  already  possessed.  In  order  to  supply  the  absence  of  regular  fire fireships,  ships, fireships,  the  following  transports,  the  Hercules,  the  Ocean,  the  Apollo,  and  the  Sally,  were  fitting  out  in  a  manner  proper  for  that  service  ;  and  the  most  important  news  may,  as  we  said  before,  he  daily  expected  from  that  quarter.  Upon  the  subject  of  the  unhappy  differences  which  have  there  taken  place,  we  shall  subjoin  the  following  particu particulars  lars particulars  which  have  come  to  our  knowledge  :  It  is  said,  that  upon  Lord  Cochrane's  joining  the  fleet,  Admiral  Gambiei  gave  orders,  that  a  boat,  boat's  crew,  and  an  officer,  should  instantly  be  provided  by  every  ship  under  his  command  ;  the  whole  of  the  men  being  required  to  volunteer.  Upon  receiving  these  orders,  Admiral  - STYLE=superscript  Harvey  addressed  his  ship's  company,  and,  after  stating  the  nature  of  them,  declared,  that  he  himself  in  his  own  person  volunteered,  and  invited  as  many  as  chose  to  follow  his  example  ;  in  consequence  of  which  the  greater  part  of  his  officers  and  men  enrolled  themselves  along  with  him.  A  list  of  these  being  conveyed  to  the  Caledonia,  Lord  Gambier's  flag-ship,  his  Lordship  is  r:  ported  to  have  stated,  that  these  were  not  generally  the  kind  of  volunteers  he  wanted  ;  as  Lord  Cochrane  was  to  command  the  expedition,  of  IA  Web  appointment  he  (Lord  Gambier)  had  himself  some  reason  to  complain,  iaasmuch  as  it  seemed  to  indicate  that  there  was  no  Officer  in  his  fleet  fit  to  take  charge  of  the  service;  but  that  Admiralty  Orders  to  this  effitct  had  been  received,  which,  of  course,  lie  must  obey.  Hereupon  Admiral  Harvey  is  stated  to  have  expressed  the  greatest  dissatisfaction,  and  to  have  bestowed  upon  Lord  Gambier  himself  epithets  of  other  qualities  than  those  which  he  has  evinced  in  his  profession,  such  as  ./esuist,  Methodist,  and  Psalm-singer;  and  all  this  in  the  presence  of  Captain  Bedford,  of  the  Caledonia,  who  desired  to  know  if  it  was  meant  that  this  reply  should  be  conveyed  to  the  Commander  in  Chief;  to  which  the  other  answering,  in  the  heat  of  passion,  in  the  affirmative,  the  communica communication  tion communication  accordingly  took  place,  and  the  letter  for  a  Court-  Martial  was  the  result.  We  are  extremely  sorry  for  any  occurrence  of  this  nature  in  the  fleet,  which,  nevertheless,  proceeds  from  a  feeling  most  characteristic  of  the  (r  eneral  spirit  of  the  British  navy,  namely,  a  jealousy  of  honour,  r STYLE=superscript  '  an  ardent  desire  to  be  in  the  midst  of  danger,  which  has,  perhaps,  in  the  present  instance,  broken  out  -  into  a  little  irregular  fit  of  spleen,  but  which  we  still  hope  will  involve  none  of  the  parties  concerned  in  any  serious  consequences.  Accounts  received  yesterday  state,  that  Lord  Cochrane,  with  his  usual  vigilance  and  promptitude.  observing  that  the  Enemy  were  erecting  in  Basque  Roads  a  battery  to  an annoy  noy annoy  our  ships  in  their  operations  against  the  French  slim slimdror,  dror, slimdror,  immediately  attacked  it,  and,with  two  long  24-poun 24-pounders,  ders, 24-pounders,  kept  up  such  a  fire,  that  it  was  speedily  demolished.  The  enemy  have  had  the  caution  to  keep  a  boat  stationed  close  to  the  cables  of  all  their  ships,  to  prevent  being  sur surprised  prised surprised  by  our  gallant  tars.  The  squadron  of  Admiral  Duckworth  is  arrived  at  Ply,  mouth.  P10_TB00011 if  the  men  being  required  to  volunteer.  Upon  hese  orders,  Admiral  - STYLE=superscript  Harvey  addressed  his  ship's  and,  after  stating  the  nature  of  them,  declared,  nself  in  his  own  person  volunteered,  and  invited  chose  to  follow  his  example  ;  in  consequence  of  greater  part  of  his  officers  and  men  enrolled  along  with  him.  A  list  of  these  being  conveyed  !donia,  Lord  Gambier's  flag-ship,  his  Lordship  to  have  stated,  that  these  were  not  generally  'volunteers  he  wanted  ;  as  Lord  Cochrane  was  to  the  expedition,  of  %IWO)  appointment  he  (Lord  lad  himself  some  reason  to  complain,  laasmuch  !d  to  indicate  that  there  was  no  Officer  in  his  take  charge  of  the  service;  but  that  Admiralty  this  effect  had  been  received,  which,  of  course,  ley.  Hereupon  Admiral  Harvey  is  stated  to  have  11 STYLE=superscript  °1  he  greatest  dissatisfaction,  and  to  have  bestowed  I  Gambier  himself  epithets  of  other  qualities  which  he  has  evinced  in  his  profession,  such  as  •  'ethodist,  and  Psalm-singer;  and  all  this  in  the  ...,  f  Captain  Bedford,  of  the  Caledonia,  who  desired  '  it  was  meant  that  this  reply  should  be  conveyed  inlander  in  Chief;  to  which  the  other  answering,  t  of  passion,  in  the  affirmative,  the  communica-  lingly  took  place,  and  the  letter  for  a  Court-  •  as  the  result.  We  are  extremely  sorry  for  any  u  of  this  nature  in  the  fleet,  which,  nevertheless,  rom  a  feeling  most  characteristic  of  the  (r  eneral  he  British  navy,  namely,  a  jealousy  of  honour,  r STYLE=superscript  '  -•  desire  to  be  in  the  midst  of  danger,  which  has,  n  the  present  instance,  broken  out  into  a  little  it  of  spleen,  but  which  we  still  hope  will  involve  e  parties  concerned  in  any  serious  consequences.  .s  received  yesterday  state,  that  Lord  Cochrane,  mal  vigilance  and  promptitude.  observing  that  were  erecting  in  Basque  Roads  a  battery  to  an-  ;hips  in  their  operations  against  the  French  slim-  tediately  attacked  it,  and,w  ith  two  long  24-poun-  ,•  up  such  a  fire,  that  it  was  speedily  demolished.  y  have  had  the  caution  to  keep  a  boat  stationed  e  cables  of  all  their  ships,  to  prevent  being  .sur-  COLI  r  gallant  tars.  .  •  adron  of  Admiral  Duckworth  is  arrived  at  Ply,  P10_TB00012 P"
