text
"BILL  TO  PREVENT  run  SALE  OF  PLACES.  Lord  Folkstone  had  a  few  words  to  say  on  the  subject.  He  observed  that  these  sort-sof  preventive  bills  very  rarely  did  any  good.  As  long  as  temptations  were  sufThred  to  remain,  offences  would  be  committed.  Notwithstanding.  the  provisions  of  such  bills,  the  ingenuity  a  offenders  would  continue  to.  evade  them,  at  a  little  more  ex  pence  or  trouble.  If  the  inquiry  he  had  pro proposed  posed proposed  a  few  nights  since  had  been  gone  into,  there  would  have  been  no  occasion  for  the  present  measure.  As  to  the  othces  con connected  nected connected  with  the  courts  of  law,  he  found  they  had  been  for  a  long  time  regularly  bought  and  sold,  but  he  could  no  reason  why  this  pr:ctice  should  he  suirored  to  continue.  There  was  another  Omission,  however,  in  the  act,  which  appeared  to  him  of  more  material  •  moment.  The  attention  of  the  House  had  been  much  fixed  to  Last  India  w•riterships  and  cadetships,  but  there  was  another  thing  of  much  more  consequence  which  had  not  been  noticed.  It  was  most  notorious  that  there  was  a  traffic  for  other  plAees.,  and  also  for  seats  in  Parliament.—(  Hear  !  hear  !)  This  was  a  thing  most  contrary  to  every  idea  of  the  constitution,  and  vet  it  was  most  notorious  ;  and  as  it  was  most  notoriotv,  -  be  thought  the  Right  [Linton:able  Gentleman  would  do  well  to  introduce  a  clause  in  his  bill  to  prevent  trafficking  for  seats  in  Parlia  , STYLE=superscript  aent.  The  Treasury  was  .the  place  where  this  traffic  went  on•  to  the  greatest  and  most  corrupt  extent.  The  Secre Secretary  tary Secretary  of  tire  Treasury  was  generally  the  agent  in  all  those  trans transactions  actions transactions  on  the  part  of  the  Government,  (  Ilear  !  hear  !  )  ciendetnen  meant  by  this  sneering  to  imply  at  doubt  of  hi-  state statetusat,  tusat, statetusat,  he  ,sktpuld  be  very  happy  to  he  allowed  a  committee  to  exatuitie  into  the  fact.  At  every  dissolution  of  oarliament  there  i%O.s  an  office  open  at  the  trensnry,  where'  the  friends  of  adminis administration  tration administration  stated  theft  terms,  and  where  persons  made  their  bargains  on  differeot  terms,  according  to  the  abilities  with  which  they  were  supposed  capable  of  stipporting  the  Government.  This  svnQitis  firm  belief,  anti  he  believed  it  was  also  the  belief  of  the  pantie..  thought  the  House  should  correct  abuses  of  this  tpagpitude  s  at.  the  same  time  that  they  were  - STYLE=superscript  passing  a  bill  with  respect  to  minor  offences.  Mr,  Creevey  said,  that  the  Noble.  Lord  was  perfectly  correct  in  stating,  that  - STYLE=superscript  seats-in  Parliatnent  had  been  notoriously  bought  and  sold-  by-  the  Treasury.  Ile  would  say,  that  this  - STYLE=superscript  vas  not  wily  Ms  belief,  hut  that  it:  was  within  his  knowledge.  The  Treasury  not  only  openly  bought  and  sold  those  seat,  but  the)  lievt  in  a  great  degree  the  monopoly  of  that  .market.  If  this  Ao,  attempted  to  be  denied  by  Ministers,  he  should  he  glad  to  have  the-opportunity  of  proving  it,  and  he  could  easily  prove  it  from  the  lips  of  any  one  who  had  ever  been  Secretary  of  the  Treasury.  It  was  absolute  -nonsense  and  delusion  On  the  public,  for  the  House  to  spend  their  time  in  considering  abuses  in  the  Commis Commissioners  sioners Commissioners  of  the  Lottery,  and  every  oilier  minor  department,  when  they  knew,  and  when  the  public  k'ww,  that  the  greatest  of  all  atuscs  was  constantly  practised  b)  every  Secretary  of  the  Treasury.  in  buying  and  selling  seats  in  Parliament.  To  talk  of  a  dissolution  of  Parliament  as  an  appeal  to  the  people  was  mere  mockery  and  imposition.  It  was  perfectly  well  known  that  a  dissolution  of  Parliament  was  not  tin  appeal  to  the  peo people,  ple, people,  but  to  the  Treasury  (Hear!  Rear  !)  Although  he  had  great  respect  tar  the  last  Goverment,  and  owed  some  personal  favours  to  them,  Set  he  must  say,  that  their  dissolution  of  Par Parliament  liament Parliament  at  the  end  of  four  years,  like  the  dissolution  by  the  present  Ministers,  at  the  end  of  about  four  months,  was  not  nn  appeal  to  the  people  but  to  the  Treasury  (loud  cries  of  Hear  !  Hear  !)  Until  tie  House  was  disposed  to  suppress  this  odious  and  unconstitutional  traffic,  the  legislating  on  those  .miaow  abuses  was  mere  mockery  and  delusion."
