text
"FEB.  12.  earnest  and  46 STYLE=superscript  voluntary  in  that  trying  crisis,  of  his  0 STYLE=superscript  '  personal  sufficiently  evidenced  the  princely  feel feelings  ings feelings  by  which-he  was  actuated.  If  any  corroboration  were  re  quired  as  to  this  trait  in  the  disposition  of  his  Royal  Highness,  it•was  to  be  seen  when  . STYLE=superscript  he  attended  the  embarkation  of  his  regi regiment,  ment, regiment,  for  Spain:  in  his  unaffected  declaration  of  his  own  wil willingness  lingness willingness  to  have  accompanied  them,  in  the  affectionate  enthusiasm  with  which  he  was  then  cheered  by  his  soldiery  . STYLE=superscript  ,  and  in  the  gallantry  with  which  they  afterwards  conducted  themselves.  One  of  the  privates,  in  this  regiment,  captured  Lefebvre.  While  the  merits  of  the  Prince  of  Wales  are  attempted  to  be  ascertained,  it  will  be  expected  that  some  allusion  should  he  made  to  what  are  considered  as  his  demerits.  Liberal  and  in ingenuous,  genuous, ingenuous,  but  with  resources  by  no  means  answerable  to  the  splendid  situation  he  was  destined  to  fill,  is  it  to  be  wondered  at,  when  reviewing  the  career  of  this  Prince,  that  we  find  him  early  incurring  pecuniary  difficulties;  and  frankly  applying,  to  the  proper  quarter,  for  assistance  I  The  income  of  his  Royal  Highness  . STYLE=superscript  '  was  allowed,  from  his  establishment  in  1783,  to  be  'inadequate  to  the  expenditure  he  would  find  himself  called  upon  to  support  ;  and,  though  since  ailed  by  parliament,  he  has  never  been  placed  in  circumstances  completely  eligible.  Every  one  regrets  the  differences  existing  between  this  Prince  and  his  'Lova  Consort.  They  were  married,  with  uncommon  magnificence,  at  St.  James's  Palace,  on  the  Bth  of  April  1795  ;  *which  union  produced,  on  the  7th  of  January  1796,  the  young  Princess  Charlotte.  Dryden,  were  he  living,  might  therefore  lament,  to  borrow  two  of  his  complimentary  lines  on  the  co coronation  ronation coronation  of  Charles  the  2d,  the  apparently  melancholy  situation  of  our  Princess—  near  whose  chaste  womb,  ordain'd  by  fate,  The  souls  of  kings  unborn  for  bodies  wait  Still,  it  is  with  reference  to  his  higher  station,  and  apart  from  domestic  difficulties,  that  the  people  would  do  well  to  consider  the  presumptive  successor  to  the  crown  of  this  country.  He  is  purely  English.  He  is  rerfectly  acquainted  with  our  political  institutions  ;  and  has,  on  more  than  one  occasion,  solemnly  de declared  clared declared  his  unfeigned  respect  for  the  principles  to  which  he  owes  his  own  illustrious  elevation.  He  has  so  long  mixed  with  those  whose  scepter  he  is  expected  to  sway,  and  is  so  personally  known  among  the  elevated  circles  of  society  in  this  kingdom,  that  whenever  hi.;  Royal  Highness,  in  the  course  of  human  af affairs,  fairs, affairs,  shall  ascend  the  throne  of  his  august  ancestors,  the  nobi nobility  lity nobility  of  ,this  country  will  surround  him  as  one  family  ;  while  the  commonest  of  the  people  must  feel,  from  the  experience  he  has  auquired  in  their  transactions  and  concernments,  that  in  this  Prince,  however  removed  from  them  by  necessary  distinctions,  they  will  have  every  thing  to  hope  from  the  proper  combina combination  tion combination  of  humanity  with  royalty.  Disadvantages  sometimes  pro produce  duce produce  advantages.  If  this  Prince  knows  the  people,  he  owes  this  knowledge,  which  is  to  him  of  inestimable  value,  to  the  political  inactivity  to  which  he  has  been  so  long  restricted.  .  Without  paoegyrising  the  Prince  of  WALES,  his  magnani magnanimous  mous magnanimous  indifference  to  his  enemies  deserves  to  be  distinguished.  Often  as  he  is  assailed  and  threatened  and  libelled,  never  does  he  condescend,  by  penally  visiting;  his  adversaries,  to  lower  him himself  self himself  to  their  level,  and  give  effect  to  the  effusions  of  ignorance  or  malevolence.  He  justly  disdains  t  k  petty  warfare  of  news newswriters  writers newswriters  and  pamphleteers.  Ile  properly  appreciates  himself  ;  'knowing  tkat,  when  circumstances  shall  open  to  him  the  fair  career  of  glory,  it  will  be  for  his  evertions  to  confound  his  calumniators.  His  Royal  Highness  has  freqn  , STYLE=superscript  ..ntly  received  the  homage  of  talents  ;  and,  in  return,  he  has  sheen  himself  entitled  to  such  distinction,  by  his  munificent  patronage  of  the  Literary  Fund  :  See!  first  and  greatest,  in  our  records  ,hive,  The  princely  heir  of  BRUNSWICK'S  (Oval  tine  Awl  grateful  science  hails,  with  proud  acclaim,  The  patrJn..uf  her  sons  in  Uco  RG  MUIR!.  Pyc's  Lines  )  April  IS,  1807."
