text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  be  pardoned  for  not  suppressing  the  sympathy,  with  which  my  heart  is  full,  in  the  rich  reward  he  enjoys  in  the  benedictions  of  a  beloved  country,  gratefully  bestowed  fn.  exalted  talents,  zeal zealously'  ously' zealously'  devoted,  through  a  long  career,  to  the  advancement  01  its  highest  interest  and  happiness.  But  the  source  to  which  I  look  for  the  aid  which  alone  can  supply  my  deficiencies,  b  in  the  well-tried  intelligence  and  virtue  of  my  fellow-citizens,  and  in  the  counsels  of  those  represented  them  in  the  other  de departments  partments departments  associated  in  the  care  of  the  national  interest.  In  these  my  confidence  will,  under  every  difficulty,  he  best  placed;  next  to  that  which  we  have  all  been  encouraged  to  feel  in  the  guardianship  and  guidance  of  that  Almighty  Being,  m  hose  power  regulates  the  destiny  of  nations—whose  blessings  have  been  so  conspicuously  diTenAed  to  this  rising  Republic,  and  to  whom  we  are  bound  to  address  our  devout  gratitude  for  the  past.  ns  well  as  our  fervent  supplications  r.nd  best  hopes  for  the  MIDDLESEX  MEETING.  Tuesday,  pursuant  to  the  Sheriff's  Advertisement,  a  Meeting  of  the  Freeholders  of  Middlesex  *Awl(  place  at  the  Mermaid.  Hackney.  A  little  after  one  o'clock.  Mr.  Sheriff  Smith  read  to  the  Meet Meeting  ing Meeting  the  regnisition  on  which  they  had  been  called  together.  r.  Tutinell  then  rose.—The  friends  of  the  Duke  of  York  acknottleticed  that  there  hal  been  cross  misconduct  and  strong  au,,eit  . STYLE=superscript  inns  of  cum,  ption  attachiag  to  him;  and  unless  the  people  were  cordial  in  enfor;-ing  their  conviction  to  a  greater  extent,  there  could  be  nn  hope  of  rescuing  the  country  from  the  dangers  that  surrounded  it.  No  reform  enttld  ever  take  place  were  col..  ruption  allowed  to  remain  at  the  head,  of  the  chief  offices  of  the  State.  The  old,  - STYLE=superscript  rewanl  public  spirited  men  could  receive  was,  in  the  thanks  and  approbation  of  a  grateful  colon colontr%  tr% colontr%  ,  such  was  the  reward  to  which  511..  Wardle  was  entitled.—  Me  also  considered  Mr.  Bync,  one  of  their  representatives,  as  enti:led  to  a  similar  mark  of  consideration  from  his  having  sup supported  ported supported  Mr.  Wardle  with  hk  vote,  and  was  sorry  he  could  not  add  the  name  of  their  other  Member  (Mr.  Mellish),  .w  kith  he  would  have  done  with  pleasure  to  his  vote  of  thanks,  had  not  his  conduct  put  it  out  of  his  power  to  do  so.  He  concluded  by  moving  a  string  of  Resolutions.  The  first  Resolution  was  to  the  following  That  it  Ita4  long  been  a  matter  of  public  notoriety,  now  put  beyond  a  doubt  by  the  late  Inquiry,  that  abuses  have  existed  in  the  highest  de departments  partments departments  of  the  That  the  facts  which  have  ap appeared  peared appeared  in  the  course  of  the  late  Inquiet,  are  fu:ly  sufficient  to  satisfy  this  Meeting  of  the  aeces  , STYLE=superscript  it  v  of  further  inquiries  into  punlic  au  uses.  wherever  they  are  to  he  3,1  Reso•  lution  contains  a  Vote  of  Thanks  to  Mr.  Wardle;  and  •t  he  4th,  to  Sir  F.  Burdett,  Lord  Folkstone,  Mr.  Whitbread,  and  the  rest  of  the  1'27  Mrint)ers  who  voted  with  Mr.  Wurdle.—They  were  all  agreed  to.  'F  6th  being  put,  Mr.  Waithman  objected  to  that  part  which  voted  thanks  to  11r.  tho:e  who  voted  ith  him,  as  ioconsi-tent  with  the  former  vote  of  thanks  to  the  Misfit Misfitity  ity Misfitity  of  125,  against  which  they  had  voted.  He  had  other  objec object  t object  uni.  There  had  been  too  much  splitting  of  hair'',  and  an  at attempt  tempt attempt  of  certain  individuals  to  snatch  the  merit  from  Mr.  War Wart:llc.:  t:llc.: Wart:llc.:  hands,  ::s  they  had  done  in  the  case  of  Lord  Melville,  wlwn,  thong')  their  conscience:  would  not  allow  them  to  go  the  length  ithed,  so  neither  would  they  go  the  length  of  Mr  \V  hi  tbi  ead's  npo  ion  t'alt  part  of  the  Resolution  thanking,  Mr.  Banke',  /ix.  was  wit  ,orlwo,  awl  Ow  Itesolutionas  amended  put  and  carried.  ri+e  Ith  Resolution  being  put,  Mr.  Byng  expressed  himself  gratified,  that  his  conduct  had  met  the  approbation  of  his  l'on•iituents,  which  next  to  that  Of  his  own  honour  and  con conscience.  science. conscience.  •was  the  deare4  to  him.  lie  considered  himself  as  sent  to  Parliament  to  net  for  them,  and  if  he  ditfered  from  their  ge,  Leral  -e.iwoent,  he  would  have  surrendered  a  trust  he  felt  him himla  la himla  I  unable  to  execute.  Ile  hoped  to  live  to  see  the  time  when  the  duration  of  t:ieir  (Mice  would  be  so  short  that  no  representa representative  tive representative  could  long  art  in  direct  contradiction  to  the  opinion  of  his  Constituents.  The  lion.  Gentleman  proceeded  to  say,  that  his  vote  wa  s  the  re-ult  of  a  thorough  examination  of  the  evidence,  lind  that  he  would  h  ive  been  degraded  in  his  own  opinion,  could  he  have  hesitated  a  momcia  upon  it.  If  the  Inquiry  ended  •  ith  the  resi  ;nation  of  the  Commander  in  Chief,  it  would  be  of  as  - STYLE=superscript  rifle  use  as  the  dismissal  of  Lord  Melville;  but  he  hoped  he  looked  forward  to  what  the  spirit  of  the  Country,  which  was  uuw  excited  )  would  do  to  procured  radical  reform.  •  •  APRIL  16.  The  7th,  Bth,  and  9th  Resolutions,  censuring  Ministers,  rind  ex expressing  pressing expressing  the  uecessity  of  a  rarliatnentary  Reform,  thca  passed  unanimously.  Major  Cartwright  addressed  the  Meeting,  to  inform  them,  that  though  their  present  resolutions  went  merely  try  a  reform  of  the  Offices  of  State,  a  requisition  to  consider  of  tilt  , STYLE=superscript  means  of  a  Parliamentary  Reform  was  in  the  room  to  receive  signatures.  A  Meeting  at  the  Crown  and  Anchor  Tavern  would  take  place  this  day  fortnight,  for  the  saute  purpose,  where  the  dinner  would  be  under  the  direction  of  fifty  stewards,  from  Edinburgh  in  the  North,  to  Surrey  in  the  South;  from  the  Eastern  Coasts  of  Eng England  land England  to  the  Western  Coasts  in  Wales.  At  the  period  the  deepest  gloom  covered  the  political  horison  of  this  country,  and  no  Mi Minister  nister Minister  or  Member  of  Parliament  could  give  a  hope  Of  safety,—  Providence  produced  Colonel  trdle,  to  animate  the  public  mind,  to  raise  the  public  spirit.  The  Speaker  then  en entered  tered entered  into  a  calculation  to  chew,  that  if  the  pineemen  and  pensioners  in  the  House  of  Commons  (78),  and  one-seventh  of  the  naval  and  military  officers  had  been  nut  of  the  question,  the  Duke  of  York's  friends  would  have  been  in  a  mi minority  nority minority  of  nine.  Ministers  ought  to  he  punished,  and  they  were  now  punishing  them.  He  concluded  by  expressing  his  hopes  that  there  would  he  a  full  me:sting  at  the  Crown  and  Anchor,.  and  a  speedy  meeting  of  the  Middlesex  Freeholders  there-after,  on  the  subject  of  a  Reform  in  Parliament.  Mr.  Clarkson  said,  the  Meeting  had  done  justice  to  one  or  their  Representatives,  he  now  called  on  them  to  do  justice  to  the  other.  lie  then  stated,  that  Mr.  Mellish  had  voted  for  the  ac acquitthl  quitthl acquitthl  of  the  Duke  of  York  on  the  charges  of  corruption  and  connivance,  and  contended,  that  in  so  doing,  he  had  not  done  his  duty,  as  no  MR*  could  read  the  evidence  without  being  couvineed  that  there  was  gross  corruption  ?  Mr.  Rentir.y  was  proud  to  second  this  Itesolution,  and  wished  'lr.  Mellish  to  he  heard  iii  his  defence.  Mr.  Mellish,  upon  the  grounds  of  amplit  justice  to  him  and  to  themselves,  IP)  t`d  they  would  °ice  him  a  patient  hearing  in  his  own  defence.  JIB•  candidly  acknowledged  he  expected  this  vote  of  censure  would  he  put,  and  had  come  to  the  Meeting  to  fart  it,  as,  if  he  had  staid  away,  it  might  be  said  he  was  ;rimmed  of  his  conduct.  He  would  not  wade  through  the  minutes  of  evidence  to  chew  on  what  grounds  his  vote  had  proceeded,  but  would  tell  them  a  plain  story,  to  prove,  that  while  their  representative  he  had  acted  in  such  a  manner  as  to  ensure  the  approbation  of  his  own  breast.  and  that  he  had  ever  done  his  duty.  if  he  was  a  placeman  or  a  pensioner,  or  had  any  expectations,  or  had  been  bribed.  directly  or  iudirectly,  then  indeed  he  would  have  been  miserable,  but  he  challenged  any  man  present  to  accuse  him  of  such  thing,  or  to  ioty  that  he  had  not  always  conscientiously  and  diligently  attended  to  his  parliamentary  d►sties,  as  connected  with.  their  representation.  If  he  differed  with  them  on  a  political  subject,  it  was  the  head  of  his  offence.  Ile  had  voted,  after  be being  ing being  at  his  post  during  the  whole  investigation  in  the  House  of  COIIIIIIOIIA,  that  the  Duke  of  York  was  neither  guilty  of  corrup•  Lion  or  connivance,  and  his  opinion  was  unaltered  at  this  mo moment.  ment. moment.  Mr.  Waithman  replied  to  the  last  Speaker,  who  had  (he  said)  received  as  patient  a  hearing  as  any  one  under  his  circumstances  could  expect,  though  he  regretted  he  had  not  been  allowed  complete  latitude,  :ts  every  thing  he  could  sav  must  be  more  against  than  for  him.  lie  then  produced  a  hill  addressed  by  Mr.  :Mellish  to  the  Freeholders  of  Middlesex  at  the  last  election,  and  commented  upon  it  at  some  length,  concluding  with  ex  pressing  his  hopes,  that  the  County  would  never  be  guilty  of  a  repetition  of  their  folly  in  re-electing  hint.  In  this  bill.  besaid,  know  the  folly  of  professions,  I  will  make  (they  could  not  catch  him  there)  you  have  seen  enough  of  them  in  hint  I  oppose  ►tteaning.  Sir  F.  Burdett,  rs  ho  fought  the  battles  of  the  people.  Ile  had  pledged  himself  to  support  the  Constitution,  and  in  do doing  ing doing  this  he  had  only  supported  its  corruption.  Ile  hoped  the  Cnunt  of  ,Middlesex  would  in  future  follow  the  example  of  West Westminster,  minster, Westminster,  and  elect  patriotic  representatives,  free  from  all  personal:  ex  pence,  and  concluded  by  moving  au  amendment,  that  Mr.  Mellish  was  unworthy  their  confidence.  Ile  could  not  forfeit  what  he  never  possessed.  ]llr.  Clarkson  adopted  the  amendment  proposed  by  Mr.Waith Mr.Waithmaul  maul Mr.Waithmaul  and  the  Resolution  was  passed.  The  Sheriffs  is  e  then,  on  the  motion  of  Mr.  Tuffnell,  unani unanimothisi  mothisi unanimothisi  thanli.ed  for  their  constitutional  readiness  in  calling  the  Meeting,  and  their  impartial  conduct  during  the  day  ;  for  which  they  severally  returned  thanks,  and  adjourned."
