text
"THE  NATION'AL  REGISTER,  the  terms  of  that  Convention  were  such  as  ought  to  have  been  agreed  upon,  I  am  the  more  desirous  that  you  should  resume  the  considera consideration  tion consideration  of  these  two  points,  the  Armistice  and  Convention,  as  it  ap•  pears  upon  the  face  of  your  Report.  that  a  difference  of  opinion  exists  among  the  Members  of  the  Board,  which  may  probably  Yproduce  a  dissent  from  the  majority  upon  these  very  questions.  ou  will  ha  pleased,  therefore,  to  desire  such  of  the  Members  tats  may  he  of  a  different  opinion  from  the  majority  upon  these  two  questions,  to  record  upon  the  face  of  the  proceedings  their  retitons  for  such  dissent.  I  ;  un,,  Sir,  yours,  (Signed)  FREDERICK.  ft  Gelb,  Sir  I).  Dundas,  44 STYLE=superscript  Commander  in  The  Board  met  yesterday  at  the  Judge  Adv  ocate-Geueral's  Of Offlee,  flee, Offlee,  when  the  said  Letter  having  been  read,  they  agreed  that  the  following  questions  should  he  put  to  each  of  the  Me.pbers  of  the  Board  I  4pproVe.  10.-Geu.  N  von*  Lt.  Gen.  Sir  G.  N  ugent  Earl  of  Pembroke  Lord  I3eathfiel4  fleoeral  Craig  (icu.  Sir  U.  Puncia:,  Disapprove,  E4rl  of  Ilioirits  Do  you,  or  do  you  not  approve  of  the  Armistice  as  con concluded  cluded concluded  on  the  22d  of  August  it  . STYLE=superscript  -.:(1S,  in  the  relative  situa situation  tion situation  of  tho  two  ar armies  mies armies  D  4  you,  or  do  voul  Disapprove,  not  approve  of  the  t  Lt.-nen.  Nicol's  Conveutionascon%  E,  of  Peatbrolie  chided  upon  the  ltiarl  of  Maim,  31st  of  Aug.  180.  i,  in  the  relntive  si situation  tuation situation  of  the  two  I  armies  DAVID  DUNPAS,  President.  dpprove.  tt,-Gen.  sir  (1,.  Nagent  Gen.  Lord  Heathfield  Ceneral  Craig  CiPP•  $4  0,  DtPl445  (Sipe])  My  reasqn  for  considering  the  Armistice  aq  adviiable  on  the  Ira  of  August  was.,  becauin  the  enemy  had  peen'  able  to  retire  !N  T  Op  battle  pf  Ie  21st,  4114  take  4  strong  defenskte  position.  Nst:Ota.s,  L.  G.  think.  eonsideriog  the  great  *cease  of  our  farce  from  the  Oro  suspension  of  hostility  to  the  definitive  signing  of  the  Con Contrenti9o,  trenti9o, Contrenti9o,  added  tp  the  defeat  the  enemy  had  suffered.  Sir  'few  barrio*  was  tally  'Oiled  to  have  it  skted  qu  Wort  favourable  Prink?  Ol.  t  NicALLs,  L,  G.  I  approve  of  the  Irtaistice,  after  a  due  coasideration  of  the  relitive  situations  of  he  two  armies  on  the  evening  of  t  he  22d  of  August,  but  I  cannot  fully  approve  pf STYLE=superscript  the  whole  df  the  Conven Conventit%  tit% Conventit%  after  a  due  considerallou  of  the  relative  situation  of  the  two  armies  at  that  time;  because  it  does  not  appear  to  me  that,  in  the  progress  of  the  negociatiou,  softicient  stiess  was  laid  upon  the  great  advantages  had  resulted,  or  were  likely  to  result,  from  the  former  successful  operations  of  the  liritish  army  in  the  field,  from  the  positlerable  re.inforeements  which  had  joined  it  subsequent  to  the.  commencement  of  the  negotiation  from  the  rims  in  which  the  British  army  was  engaged,  being  the  cause  pf  rortu  g  a  lt  which  ova  gaod  reason  to  reckon  upon  the  good  will,  if  nut  twin  the  active  a.ssistaace,  sof  the  majority.of  the  inhabitants;  aud,  also,  from  the  oausual  readiness  which,  its  it  appears  to  me,  was  manifested  by  General  Junot  to  a  .nego•-  tiatioa,  and  by  the  Freucit  Negotiator  to  accede  to  terms  as  they  were  prpposed,  and  tq  such  construction  as  Liettt.-(ien.  Sir  Flew  Dalrymple  put  upon  them  in  some  instances,  where  1  hey  might  hive  pprae  a  d'tiereucr  of  interpretation.  1,  therefore.,  think  it  prilhOle  i  ,  for  the  alove  reasons,  that  if  Ic,s  favourable  terms  to  the  1  rench  army  Lad  been  iusisted  apon,  they  would  have  been  g  l  Ff„eded  to.  PENIbROKE,  Lieut.-Gen.  I  feel  lest'  awkwardness  in  obeying  the  order  to  detail  my  sen sentiments  timents sentiments  on  the  nature  of  the  Convention,  becauie  that  I  have  alreatlyjoined  iu  the  triltute  e  nf  applause  due  another  respect:  to  the  Qttipers  concerned.  My  opinion,  therefore,  is,  only  opposite  $o  their's  op  a  question  of.judgment,  w  here  their  talents  are  likely  , STYLE=superscript  to  have  so  much  more  weight,  as  to  render  the  profession  of  my  difference,  even  on  that  pejo*,  somewhat  pajuful.  The  duty  is  however,  imperious  on  me  not  to  disguise  or  qualify  ,the  &amp;dues  tionesvilich  I  •  have  ;node  during  this  investigation.  ,  •  An  Armistice  simply  might  not  have  heein•objectionahle,  he hetaw  taw hetaw  Sir  ilew  inplo,  expecting  iffilirly  the  arrival  of  Sir  John  Alfinre's  division,  might  bee-aurae  adynotage  for  himself  in  u  short  .sopemion  of  hostilities,  than  what  the  Preach  onuld  drag  from  it.  But  as  the  A  rmititice  involved,  and  is  fact  estah— estah)ished  )ished estah)ished  the  who'll  Pewit*  4f  the  CuqTentiou,  I  ciiMdt  separate  fr:)ta  lattef.  •.•  •  JAN.S,  Sir  A.  Nfeltesie  3  ;  has  stated  that  he  considered  his  force  at  tbe  commeOetnetit  of  the  march  from  Mondego  &amp;Nor,  as  suiticiens  to  driviThe'  French.  from'  their  positions  on  the  Tagus.  That  force  is  subsequently  joined  by  above  4000  British  troops,  under  Generals  Anstruther  and  Ackland.  The  French  make  an  attack  with  their  whole  disposable  strength,  and  are  •repulsed  with  heavy  loss,  though  but  a  part  of  the  British  army  is  brought  into  action.  It  is  difficult  to  conceive  that  the  prospects;  which  Sir  A.  Wellesley  entertained  could  be  unfavourably  altered  by  these  events,  even  had  pot  (he  certainty  a:speedy  reinforcements  to  the  British  army  existed,  •  I  •  it  is  urged,  that  had  the  rreach  been  pushed  to  extremity,  they  would  have  crossed  the  Tap's,  and  have.  protracted  tiro  campaign  in  such  a  manner  its  to  have  trounced  the  0,  0 STYLE=superscript  1:e  portant  view  of  the  GellCrals-  , STYLE=superscript  naluely,  sending  succours  into  Spain.  This  measure  must  have  been  equally  feasible  for  the  French,  if  no  victory  had  been  obtained  over  them  ;  Suel  confess  that,  the  chance  of  such  an  attempt  seems  to  me  ;smumecl  apinst  pro probability,  bability, probability,  Sir  flew  Dalrymple  notices  what  he  calls  .  4, STYLE=superscript  414  crib  tical  and  embarrassed  state  of  before  that.  General  has  been  pressed  by  the  British  army  ;  and,  in  explanation.  of  that  expression,  observes,  ;bat  the  surrender  of  Dupont,  the  existence  of  the  victorious  Spunl4h  army  in  Andalusia,  which;  cut  a  - STYLE=superscript  the  the  retreat  of  the  F  reach  in  that  directlon,and  theattiNersalAtos,  tility  of  the  Portuguese,  matte  the  situation  ofJutscst  one  ofgro4  distress.  No  temptation  for  the  translation  of  the  .  war  .iiatsr.  Alentejo  presents  itself  from  this  picture;  nor  doesauy  repre  , STYLE=superscript  sentioion  give  ground  to  suppke  that  Junot  could  have  con..  templated  the  measure  as  holding  forth  any  prospect  boultintate.  ruin,  after  much  preliminary  distress  and  disgrace.  The  strong.  est  of  all  proofs  as  to  Junot's  opinion,  arises  from  hii•sending.  the  very  morning  after  the  battle  of  Vimniera,  to  propose  the  evacuation  of  Portugal,  a  tap  which  sulfulently  indicated  that  he  was  satisfied  he  could  not  only  make  ,no  effectual  defence,„  but  could  not  even  prolong  the  contest  to  take  the  chanco  , STYLE=superscript  of  ac accidents.  cidents. accidents.  fie  seems,  indeed,  to  have  been  without  nay  real  re.  source.  •  It  appears  In  evidence,  that  of  the  troops  left  by  him  in  Lis.  bon  and  the  forts;  a  considerable  .proportion  •  wore  of  very  don  btfol  quality.  Those  troops  on  whose  fidelity.tre  could  cone  file,  had  been  dismayed  hy  a  pion]  defeaVandsthey  .were  sat.  sible  that  they  had  no  succoqr  to  leek  to  Qom,  al:woad.:  To  thq  British  Generals  it  was  known,  hen  the  ArkaililiCe  Wiligutnted.  that  10,000  men  under  Sir  J.  %lore,  as  Wellati  the  $d  and  424  regiments  of  foot,  with  the  -Mb  dragoons.  .taighk  be,immedi.  ately  reckoned  upon;  and  although  much  advitatage  baul  not  been  drawn  from  the  Portuguese  troops,  their  support,  and  the  general  violence  of  the  country  agaiust  the  k'reuctt,  cannot  bo  144  out  oftbis  calculation.  .  .  ,  .  .  ,  .•  Tife  disparity  of  force  and  of  circumstances  was  then  such  as  could  , STYLE=superscript  le:lve  Do  doubt  that  the  issue  must  be  favourable  to  us.  I  do  not  omit  advertence  to  the  difficultiesarged  as  possible  to  occur  in  furniihitig  the  IlritiA  army  with  bread.  But,  putting  aside  the  obvious  solution,  that  such  a  temporary  privation  is  not  ruin,  ous  to  anarnui  wtere  cattle  can  be  procured  in  the  country,  this  difficulty  cannot.be  well  pleaded,  if  admission  is  to  be  given  to  the  speculation,  that  the,heavy  e.annou  necessary  for  battering  forts  St.  Julien  and  Caseacs.Were  to  be  got  ashore  in  the  of  the  Rock  of  Lisbon.  The  cueition  then  coinei•  toillis;  whether  the  Convention  did  (as  has  been  asserted)  secure  all  t  Ile  'objects  which  were  proposed  in  the  Expedititat  ?If  it  did  not,  I`l.-ryas  not  what  his  Majesty  was  entitled  to  expeti  from  tl.e  :elane.sititatiau  of  the  two  armies.  ,  I  humbly  conceive  it  to  have  been  erroneous  to  regard  the  emancipation  of  Portugal  front  the  French,  as  the  aiole  or  the  Principal'object  of  the  expedition.  Vpon  whatever  territory  e  contend  with  the  French,  it  must  'be  a  prominent  onket  in  the  struggle  to  destroy  their  resources,  and  to..narrow.their  means  of  injuring  us,  or  those  whose  ,cause  we  are  supporting.  This  seems  to  have  been  so  little  considered  in  the  Convention,  that  the  terms  appear  to  have  extricated  Junot's  army  from  a  situation  of  infinite  distress,  in  which  it  was  wholly  out,  of  play,  and  to  have  brought  it  in  a  state  of  entire  equipmettt,  into  im immediate  mediate immediate  currency,  in  a  quarter  too,  where  it  must  interfere  with  our  most  urgent  and  interesting  concerns.  •  Had  it  been  impracticable  to:reduce  the  French  army  to  lay  down  its  arms  unconditionally,  still  an  obligation  not  to  servo  for  a  specified  time,  might  have  sateen  insisted  upon  ;  or  Ilellisle  might  have  been  prescribed  as  the  place  at  which  they  should  be  landed,  in  order  to  prevent  the  possibility  of  their  reitrtbrcing  (at  least  for  a  long  time)  the  armie*  cm  ployed  for  the  subjugation  of  Spain.  •  Verhars  a  stronger  coul:iderattiuu  111411  the  merit  of  thou,.  ,  P6_TB00016 1  f  :  I  1  ,  ,  '.l  ib  (k  t  .  '  ' STYLE=superscript  t  .  4  I  Si  )  ‘  e  11`  A  e  I  ' STYLE=superscript  I  1.  1  OA  t  •  f  1  ?  •  ..  .1  .  4  t,  .  b  4  t  i  PI  -  .  I  lit  .•  .  -  ..  i  l STYLE=superscript  l  l  '  ..  ,  f  1  P6_TB00017 i  ll  it  '1  ,  i  ,  fl  •  'I,  I  r:  l  i STYLE=superscript  ),  4‘ STYLE=superscript  .  4"
