text
"244  Cd  1.0  CL  OGLE.  Lord  FOLKSTON  E  represented  him  as  not  only  guilty  of  fraud  in  his  accounts,  at  a  period  when  he  obtained  a  letter  of  service  for  the  raising  of  a  levy,  but  also  of  forgery  in  the  receipts  w  high  he  gave  on  that  business.  To  there  charges  officially  filed  against  him  by  the  Attornev  , STYLE=superscript  (ieneral  in  1801,  he  had  pleaded  not  guilty,  but  afterwards  w  ithdrevr  that  plea,  and  consequently  stood  upon  the  footing  of  full  copy  iction.  Not  withstanding  this  the  pending  proceedings  against  hint  w  ere  unaccountably  stopped,  and  it  was  with  the  view  of  astertaining  the  reasons  for  so  doing  that  the  Noble  Lord  made  his  present  motion,  naniels,  That  there  he  laid  before  the  House  a  cop  of  the  information  filed  in  his  Ma Majesty's  jesty's Majesty's  Court  of  King's  Bench  by  the  Attorney-General,  against  John  Ogle,  Esq.  in  the  year  1540  a  or  ISOI,  together  with  an  ac account  count account  of  the  consequent  legal  proceedings  therein.''  Mr.  Yon  at;  and  the  Cit.t  N  CELL  O  k  of  the  Eicra-.QvEtt  had  net  objection  to  the  Noble  Lord's  motion  for  the  Papers.  '['hey  contended  that  the  bond  of  MAIM.  which  Col.  Ogle  had  en entered  tered entered  into  for  the  reimbursement  of  the  public  Money,  and  which  at  present  existed  at  the  War  Mire,  was  a  reasonable  ground  whetena  Id  test  a  suspension  of  further  proceetlings.  This  bond  was  equivalent  to  any  tine  which  the  Court  of  King's  Bench  may  impose,  and  would  be  cimverted  to  other  purpuse3  than  would  the  fine-  imposed  by  that  Court.  The  Noble  Lord's  motion  Was  then  put  ;tad  agreed  to:  Lord  FOI:Kr.s-roNy:  then  further  moved  for  the  produCtion  Of  such  letter.  from  Colonel  Ogle  to  the  War  Office  as  related  to  his  apptiention  for  a  settlement  of  his  accounts  and  the  answers  thereto.:  Air.  Yon  x  r!,  proposed,  as  an  6mendent  to  thls,  to  add,  44  •  and  also  all  the  proceedings  of  the  War  Office;  with  reference  to  Col.  Ogle's  ar  Sit  J.  Neu  port  moved  ror  a  copy  of  the  %vafrant  appointing  Beach:tuft  Hill,  Esq.  to  tle  office  of  inspector  General  of  Excise,  for  that  part  of  the  United  kingdom  tailed  Ireland:  The  lion.  ltonet  wished  to  know  what  could  entitle  a  man  who  was  no notot  tot notot  io  u  4y  gdilty  cif  trral-practices  in  an  Wainr  oflice,  to  promo promotion  tion promotion  of  .so  extraordinary  a  kind.  Mr.  Foster  and  Mr,  Croker  both  horse*  testimony  to  the  abi ability  lity ability  and  dist  i7ignis:ied  activity  of  that  Officer.  If  he  took  freF,  ft  was  not  at  a  time  %%hell  it  was  a  general  practice  to  do  so  ;  for  though  contrary  to  the  Act,  it  WaS  warranted  by  the  extreme  poverty  of  the  salaries.  Tree  had  been  since  raised,  and  no  further  excuse  could  now  ist,  but  there  Was  certainly  an  ex excise  cise excise  at  a  former  prriod.  Si'r  J.  Newport  offered  some  otrervations  in  rep/3';  after  *hitt)  the  motion  was  pot,  and  agreed  to.----Adjoutnetfi  Thu  rsl  .4pril  Lunt,  I  STLEttIIAGII.  tort!  AlitC7/11/41.1)  11AN:111'0N  mse  to  give  notice,  that  in  enosequence  of  the  dick  tyre.  that  had  heti)  made  in  the  Report  of  the  East  India  Committee,  he  should,  On  toamorrow  se'n se'nbight,  bight, se'nbight,  submit  to  the  !louse  a  motion  respecting  the  same;  and,  as  the  disclosures  were  of  so  valurninnu:,  a  nature,  he  thought  it  necessary  distinetry  to  state,  that  on  that  day  he  should  call  the  attention  of  the  to  that  part  exclusively  relating  to  the  conduct  of  Lord  Castlereagh.  Lord  OSsulstim  moved  for  an  Address  to  his  Majesty,  praying  that  there  he  laid  before  the  House  a  rot  urn  of  all  Places,  Posts,  And  Offices  held  itnitTediattly  from  the  Criwn,  whether  during  pleasure  or  good  behaviour,  or  by  reversion,  or  any  other  tenure,  and  what,  whether  in  the  !finite  I)epartment  or  the  Colonies,  together  with  the  nature,  dutv,  and  salaries  of  the  re respective  spective respective  Offices,  and  the  duties  of  .their  several  institutions.  —  Ordered.  Me  P4_TB00010 CIIIMSE  rtostsynt:..—coLovr,r,  cottooN,  ,ir  FRANCIS  Ilr,  aorrr,  t  , STYLE=superscript  eeisaz  a  Noble  Lord  in  his  'Anse,  expressed.  a  wiih  to  know  from  that  Noble  Lord,  if  «hat  he  had  heard  with  resport  to  the  disposal  of  the  public  property  to  an  individual  was  founded  in  fact.-  The  circomstance  he  allnd-  eil  to  was  this  :  he  had  understood  that  a  portion  of  the  gronod  belonging  to  Chelsea  Hospital,.  !yin  ,*  along  the  hank  of  the  niver  . STYLE=superscript  Thames,  and  partkuturly  calculated  for  the  air  and  exer-  eise  of  the  pensioners,  had  been  lately  consigned  over  to  the  use  and  posseisito,9f..WonV  Gordon,  jr  tiot  ATT7slid,  that  he  stotild  to-morrow  submit  me/  '  to  1 STYLE=superscript  '  ,un  (6.,subjeet..  Le:  J.;  ,  Ifooiti,\Committee  on  the  Local`,  Militia  ;re  '1  •  11  .  ,  n  at  as  many  rOuntirs,  not  from  *;)‘•  •  , STYLE=superscript  41  •  •  '  scircumstances  bad  not  been  aMe  gf..  •  •  -- STYLE=superscript  `/i'•/  . STYLE=superscript  .;%  ••%•;!,  4!P';‘,.  P4_TB00011"
