text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  75  Lion  of  our  army,  were  secured.  lie  had  put  himself  at  the  head  of  the  4.2  d  regiment,  iu  order  to  support  the  right  of  the  army,  and  had  just  finished  a  short  address  to  his  soldiers,  w  bets  he  was  inortaliy  wounded  by  a  cwinou  ball.  1t;  rota  all  that  we  have  heard  of  tine  character  of  Sir  John  Moore,  he  seems  to  have  been  a  man  exclusively  devoted  to  the  'military  profession.  lie  was  a  complete  soldier,  and  a  strict  i  d  ...sclemar_au,  so  that  the!  52d  regiment,  of  which  he  was  Colonel,  and  which  he  had  under  his  command  at  Shorneliffe,  was  generally  looleed  up  to  as  a  ie.wlel  in  point  of  discipline  and  MalKll‘res.  lie  seems  to  have  had  all  those  talents,  which,  had  he  been  destined  to  coramind  a  Continental  Army  upon  a  larte  scale,  mill  a  protracted  warfare,  would  probably  have  placed  him  in  the  same  rank  with  the  first  Generals  of  modern  Europe.  Ile  was  unmarried  ;  his  mother  is  still  alive,  and  re  siles  at  Cobham,  in  Su  rre  , STYLE=superscript  .  .  One  of  his  brothers,  Capt.  Graham  Mpore,  was  Commodore  of  the  fleet  which  con-.  voyed  the  Royal  ramily  of  Portugal  to  the  prazil,,  he  has  several  other  brnthers,  who  Ore  all  respectable  professional  n  w  a„  The  I.dlowing  ilteresting  account  'of  the  last  m.ametils  of  this  most  lamented  °dieser  is  given  by  one  of  his  most  confidential  attendant'  and  friends  (we  belieye  Col.  Anderson),  who  was  by  the  side  of  the  Hero  iii  lib  ;tist  mpineots,  and  w  ith  whom  he  de depm;ited  pm;ited depm;ited  his  expiring  wishes  i  met  the  General  on  the  evening  of  the  16,th  instant,  as  some  soldiers  we're  bringing  hint  into  Connive,  supported  in  a  blanket  with  sashes.  lie  knew  me  immediately,  ihoogh  it  was  almost  dark  ;  squeezed  me  by  the  hand,  mid  said,  De  not  leave  me.*--  lle  spoke  to  the  surgeons  on  their  exeinieing  We;  wounil,bitt  was  in  sach  pain  he  fttilld  say  bat  little.  .ia.Cti'r  some  !hue,  he  seemed  ve.:y  aurin4s  to  speak  to  toe  :  and,  at  intervels,  expressed  pine.  self  as  fella  %Ns  :--The  first  thing  lie  asked  was  Are  the  French  l:ea  ten  ?'--which  ir.quiry  he  repeated  to  alt  those  he  Inc  w  as  they  eiaeced  the  room.  On  being  .insured  by  all  twat  the  French  were  beaten,  he  e  nor  F:  Tit  r;  Pee  P  es  LAND  W  11.1.  BE  SAT1S1:11:0-1  )101'.E  MY  COUN1:11  Y  wi4l.  1)0  M  J  U  41'  C  r.—YOU  ill  see  my  friends  as  sou.'  as  you  possiblv  tell  theta  evety  thing—say  to  my  mother'---litere  his  v  o  icelailtd  him)  --t  r  'wave  mud!  to  say,  but  cannot  get  it  out.—('  colonel  Graham,  end  are  all  toy  Aides,dc•  r  Camp  vtrll?  have  made  my  will,  4ind  have  remembered  my  servants.  —  Colborne  has  in\  w  ill,  And  all  my  p:oper  ,  Major  Colborne  (bis  print  i  pal  Aid-de-Camp)  then  came  into  the  rienn—lie  spoke  most  Lied!':  to  him,  and  then  said  to  suV  —  t STYLE=superscript  .Bemeedier  vou  go  to--,  and  tell  him  it  is  my  request,  and  that  I  expect  he  will  befriend  Major  Colborne  —he  has  heed  long  with  use.,  and  I  know  him  most  worthy  of  it.'  lie  then  again  asked  Major  Colborne  if  the  French  w  ere  beaten  ;  and  on  being  tolil  they  were  n‘1i;:1-ed  on  every  point,  he  said—'  it  wits  a  great  satisfaction,  in  his  last  moments,  to  know  h  e  h  a  d  bout  the  '',each.'  General  Paget  in  t  lie  room  r—On  my  telling  him  he  was  N  ,_~  P11_TB00010 7  . STYLE=superscript  4%4i•"
