text
"111.VRCII  5.  TIIE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  thus  the  original  creditor  received  only  a  dividend  upon  a  divi dividend.  dend. dividend.  This  was  evidently  a  great  abuse,  and  he  meant  to  pro propose,  pose, propose,  that  the  creditors  should  be  authorised  to  appoint  a  bank,  in  which  the  bankrupt's  property  may  be  deposited.  The  creditors  had  this  power  already,  but  there  was  no  penalty  on  the  assignees  for  non-compliance.  By  way  of  remedy  he  meant  to  propose,  that  if  the  creditors  did  not  at  their  second  meeting  appoint  such  a  place  of  deposit,  then  it  :hi)  ;id  he  done  ;my  the  commissioners;  and  that  the  assignees  should  be  charged  20  per  cent.  on  the  value  of  all  time  efiects  which  they  kept  in  their  hands.  lie  also  meant  to  pro propose  pose propose  enactments  which  ••could  have  the  effect  of  lessening  the  expellees  attending  commissions  of  bankruptcy  :  in  particular,  that  no  actions  at  law  should  be  brought  against  assignees  fur  non-payment  of  dividends,  which  was  a  very  fruitful  source  of  ex expencobto  pencobto expencobto  the  bankrupt's  estate.  He  proposed  that  in  such  cases  there  should  be  a  summary  remedy  by  petition  to  the  Lord  Chancellor.  An  uncertificated  bankrupt  was  placed  in  the  most  deplorable  situation.  His  industry  was  lug  to  himself,  and  to  the  country,  because  he  could  never  con  s  ider  the  fr  u  it  s  of  it  as  his  own,  and  he  was  constantly  liable  to  be  impri imprisoned  soned imprisoned  during  the  remainder  of  his  life,  for  debts  contracted  previous  to  his  bankruptcy.  Before  the  Act  of  the  30m  Geo.  11.  the  granting  of  a  certificate  was  left  to  the  Chan,  cellar  alone;  but  now  by  that  Act  it  was  left  to  the  creditors,  and  unless  four-fifths  of  them  in  number  and  value  consented  to  his  'Teel  vinga  certificate,  however  fair  and  honourable  the  con conduct  duct conduct  of  the  bankrupt  had  been  she  was  liable  to  remain  'facer  tificated  for  li  fe.  This  was  not  the  only  hardship  ;  for  he  knew  if  to  be  the  fact,  from  his  experience  in  the  Court  of  Chancery,  that  creditors  sometimes  kept  away,  the  bankrupt  did  not  receive  his  certificate,  and  he  immediately  became  liable  to  imprison imprisonment  ment imprisonment  by  the  creditor  who  kept  aloof.  This  part  of  the  subject  was  connected  with  the  policy  of  imprisonment  for  life  on  ac account  count account  of  debt,  and  on  it  he  would  express  his  opinion,  that  it  would  be  doing  the  greatest  benefit  to  society  by  abolishing  altogether  such  a  system.  If  the  bankrupt  retained  any  property,  his  life  was  forfeited  ;  and  after  all  he  was  liable  to  be  imprisoned  for  not  having  what  he  thus  could  not  possibly  have.  From  his  experience  he  could  say,  certificates  were  seldom  withheld  from  dishonest  bankrupts,  hut  often  from  those  who  had  acted  honestly.  The  general  object  of  withholding  these  certificates  was  to  ex extort  tort extort  money,  either  from  the  bankrupts  themselves,  at  after  periods,  or  from  their  relatives,  and  the  father  of  the  bankrupt,  from  paternal  sympathy,  was  ()Reim  compelled  to  part  with  the  earnings  of  a  life  of  iutiost  ry  to  save  his  on  from  perpetual  im imprisonment.  prisonment. imprisonment.  The  number  of  uncertifieateil  bankrupts  aas  very  great.  In  the  year  ISO)  there  were  940  ban!crupts,  and  of  these  there  werelSl  without  a  certificate  ;  iu  1;406  there  were  WS  and  of  these  601  were  uneertificated.  Within  the  1:14  20  years,  the  whole  number  of  bankrupts  had  been  16,202.  and  of  these  0,597  were  without  certificates.  In  1772,  a  temnoorary  Act  was  passed,  similar  to  the  Insolvency  Act,  by  which  time  Lord  Chancellor  was  empowered  to  grant  certificates  in  such  bank bankrupts  rupts bankrupts  as  he  thought  proper  ;  and  in  1775,  a  similar  Act  was  passed.  Was  it  reasonable  that  the  fate  of  bankrupts  should  be  more  in  the  power  of  their  credttors  now  th;al  was  thought  proper  then  I  Why  should  these  acts  have  been  only  temporary  What  he  should  propose  was  this  :  ifat  the  end  of  2  years  after  the  bank bankrupt's  rupt's bankrupt's  last  examination  his  certificate  should  not  he  signed  by  four-fifths  of  his  creditors,  then  he  might  apply  for  it  to  the  Lord  Chancellor,  who  should  have  power  to  grant  the  same,  unless  the  creditors  assigned  satisfactory  grounds  for  the  refusal.  He  should  propose  also  that  this  should  have  a  retrospective  in influence,  fluence, influence,  and  that  all  those  who  were  at  present  w  ithout  their  cer certificates  tificates certificates  for  two  years  should  have  liberty  to  appeal  to  the  Lord  Chancellor.  Here  it  might  be  asked,  had  he  nothing  to  propose  for  securing  the  punishment  of  dishonest  bankrupts,  the  numbers  of  whom  had  multiplied.  He  believed  that  one  great  reason  why  the  offence  itself  was  multiplied,  because  it  was  made  a  capital  felony.  It  was  now  $0  years  since  the  crime  was  made  capital,  during  which  period  tbere  must  have  been  very  nume•  rous  instances  of  fraudulent  bankruptcy,  aod  yet  '  .  19  all  that  time  there  had  been  only  three  instances  of  conviction,  it  s  two  of  which  they  had  received  a  pardon.  The  truth  was  , STYLE=superscript  that  men  felt  an  extreme  repugnance  at  putting  the  law  in  force,  and  therefore,  in  most  cases,  the  fraudulent  bankrupt  escaped  alto altogether.  gether. altogether.  He  did  not  wish  to  harry  through  time  Bill  which  he  proposed  to  bring  in.  If  such  a'  Bill  had  passed  many  years  ago,  how  much  wealth  would  have  been  acquired  to  the  nation  by  the  industry  of  individuals,  who  had  now  been  left  to  pine  in  absolute  want  and  penury,  and  how  many  ileartb  that  were  now  brukeu  dowu  with  affliction  ,would  have"
