text
"ACCIDENT'S,  OFFENCES,  Ec.  MARY  BATEMAV,  THE  SORCER  ESS.—This  devoted  and  profligate  creature,  was  a  follower  of  the  principles  of  Joanna;  —only  improvieg  deception  into  robbstry,  barbarity,  and  mur murder  der murder  !  She  affected  the  visions—the  trances—the  second-sight  of  that  wretched  sect  ;—large  bodies  of  w  horn  from  Leeds  attended  the  execution  ;  the  more  simple  part  of  whom  really  imagined  that  some  miracle  would  be  worked  in  her  favour,  and  that  she  would  fly  off  the  scaffold  in  a  cloud  or  on  a  broom,  and  be  saved  by  the  interposition  of  Ilebven!  Jack  Ketch,  however,  was  of  a  different  opinion,  and  his  opinion  prevailed  ;  his  tether  was  too  tightly  tied  against  any  attempts  of  her  supposed  assisting  Angels.  Notwithstanding  all  the  prayers  and  exhortations  of  the  Clergyman,  she  obstinately  persisted  in  denying  that  she  had  poisoned  the  woman  for  whom  she  suffered,  and  died  extremely  hardened  and  unrepenting  ;  thus  quitting,  after  foul  and  delibe..  rate  murder,  the  last  brink  of  time,  with  au  obdurate  lie  hang hanging  ing hanging  on  her  quivering  and  distorted  lips  !  It  is  a  curious  matter  to  state,  that  so  ingrained  and  assimi assimilated  lated assimilated  to  her  disposition  had  become  Ahoy  Bateman's  taste  for  plunder  and  witchcraft,  that  from  the  poor  woman  who  had  attended  on  herself  and  child  in  prison,  she  contrived  to  steal  a  guinea,  by  telling  the  woman's  fortune  and  making  the  stars  favourable  to  her  in  a  sweetheart.  She  carried  on  this  religi religious  ous religious  mummery  to  the  last,  and  the  gallows  only  stopped  her  taste  and  her  insight  into  futurity.  When  it  is  considered  that  this  wretch  by  the  same  means  and  by  a  complete  knowledge  of  poisons,  had  before  destroyed  the  lives  of  two  innocent  women,  whom  she  robbed  of  every  thing  they  had,  and  that  had  Perigo  died  as  well  as  his  wife,  this  would  have  been  the  fourth  life  a  victim  to  her  infernal  arts,  we  trust  it  will  prove  a  salutary  and  dreadful  lesson  to  those  who  are  attempting  to  mislead  the  un understandings  derstandings understandings  of  the  poor  by  these  fanatical  flights—by  visions— visionssecond-sight—trances  second-sight—trances visionssecond-sight—trances  and  stealings—and  all  the  mummery  of  such  abandoned  schools  as  those  of  Joanna,  &amp;c.  who  are  march.  ing  through  piety  into  the  pocket,  and  making  religion  a  stalk..  ing-horse  for  plunder.  The  child  which  had  been  sucking  for  a  year  past,  at  her  breast  was  taken  from  her,  some  little  time  before  her  exectbs  tion.  Dreadful  to  tell  !  she  gave  it  up,  without  a  pang  !!  she  parted  from  it,  without  one  emotion  !!!  A  F  racTIN  C  ssir  ASTRO  oft  E.—We  have  a  mnst  painful  duty  to  discharge  in  recording  the  very  dreadful  transaction  which  has  involved  the  family  of  Sir  Steukley  Shuckburg,  Bart.  of  Upper  Shuckb  in  the  county  of  Warwick,  and  the  family  of  Lieut.  Sharpe,  of  the  Bedford  Militia,  in  the  deepest  distress.  Lieut.  Sharpe  having  paid  his  addresses  to  M  iss  Shuckhurg,  which  were  disapproved  by  the  family,  formed  (if  he  should  be  disappointed  in  obtaining  the  object  of  his  affections),  the  horrid  detertnina.  lion  of  putting  a  period  to  his  own,  and  her  existence,  which  he  carried  into  etrect  on  Sunday  morning  last,  in  the  plantations  of  Shuckhurg  Park.  They  were  overheard  in  earnest  discourse  by  the  butler,  as  if  l.ieut.  Sharpe  was  persuading  her  to  elope  with  him  ;  and,  as  Miss  Shnckburg  uttered  the  words  No,  no,  no  he  immediately  heard  the  report  of  a  pistol,  which,  a  feiv  .4.conds  was  succeeded  by  another,  and  they  were  instantly  life lifeless  less lifeless  !  !—After  a  most  deliberate  investigation  of  all  the  circum-,  stances  of  this  most  adecting  and  ass  fu;  event,  before  John  Tomes,  Esq.  and  a  respectable  Jury,  and  the  Rev.  Mr.  Brona  s  field,  a  :Magistrate  of  the  county,  a  verdict  of  Lunacy  was  given  respecting  Lieut.  Sharpe,  and  that  Miss  Shockburg  died  b.v  his  hand.  Lieut.  Sharpe  had  been  occasionally  for  some  weeks  preceding  in  a  state  of  mental  derangement,  and  in  coutinement-"
