text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER,  18  head  the  disapprobation  was  general.  Nevertheless,  with  the  exception  of  one  distinguished  officer,  who  has,  for  the  future,  the  justest  claim  to  the  esteem  and  confidence  of  his  Country  and  Sovereign,  all  the  Members  of  the  Board  have  approved  of  the  _Armistice.  This  is  a  most  extraor extraordinary  dinary extraordinary  circumstance  !  and,  when  contrasted  with  the  uni universal  versal universal  abhorrence  it  excited  in  Portugal,  Spain,  and  Great  Britain,  we  can  account  for  it  in  no  other  manner,  than  that  of  fellow-feeling.  on  the  part  of  those  who  approved.  Opinion  is  almost  every  thing,  in  war.  That  of  the  con continent  tinent continent  in  favour  of  our  military  superiority  and  discipline  had  considerably  abated  since  the  conclusion  of  the  campaign  of  1793.  Some  uufortunate  Expeditions,  since  that  time,  did  not  contribute  to  dispel  this  prepossession  ;  and  the  brav bravest  est bravest  army  upon  earth  sank  low  iu  the  estimation  of  Europe.  ,  This  was  a  subject  of  equal  indignation  and  regret  to  those  `•  who  were•  acquainted  with  our  army  ;  and,  whilst  every  part  of  the  Continent  resounded  with-the  crash  of  Thrones,  or  writhed  under  the  scorpion  lash  of  the  most  abomiaable  I.vrant,  our  assistance,  always  successfully  invoked  by  the  weak  and  oppressed,  was  declined  as  useless.  We  were  the  only  people  capable  and  wilting  to  stop  the  alarming  evil;  and,  the  descendants  of  those  very  men,  who  opposed  a  bar  to  the  overwhelming  ambition  of  Pnittr  11.  and,  who  arrested  LEWIS  XIV.  in  t  h  e  tide  of  his  fortunes  and  the  torrent  of  his  conquest,  were  considered  to  have  so  -  much  degenerated  - STYLE=superscript  from  the  spirit  of  their  forefathers,  that  their  interference,  in  a  much  more  alarming  period  than  either  of  the  above-mentioned,  was  rejected  and  scorned.  This  deplorable  misunderstanding  sealed  the  doom  of  European  independence  ;  and  the  detestable  people  and  their  ruffian  chieftains,  who  waded  in  the  blood  of  nations,  and  gorged  in  their  plunder,  exhausted  abuse,  raisrepre•  sentatioli  and  intrigue,  to  keep  up  the  fatal  prejudice.  Our  own  Government  seemed,  for  a  time,  to  have  imbibed  monething  of  the  delusion;  and,  whilst  Austria  was  strug struggling,  gling, struggling,  in  the  apparently  last  stage  of  her  existence  ;  whilst  Prussia,  Naples,  Portugal,  llP.nover,  Ilesse  Cassel,  and  Brunswick,  were  making  desperate  efforts  to  av  , STYLE=superscript  :rt  the  impending  destruction,  the  British  people,  whose  voice  and  sword  had  formerly  so  much  weight  in  the  transactions  of  Europe,  stood  aloof,  and  were  restrained  from  taking  a  part  in  the  mighty  conflict.  Such  as  felt  the  injustice,  and  were  sensible  to  the  dis disadvantages  advantages disadvantages  of  the  erroneous  opinion  entertained  of  our  army,  ardently  wished  an  opportunity  might  offer,  when  our  soldiers  could  recover  their  ancient  reputation.  It  came,  auspicious  as  Fortune  could  give  or  patriotism  wish  :  and,  whilst  the  feelings  of  the  country  came  in  aid  of  the  combinations  of  policy,  a  British  army  was  transported  to  the  continent  to  secure  this  desideratum  of  the  Statesman  and  Patriot.  Our  army  lauded  in  Portugal,  inferior  to  the  enemy  in  number;  and  the  gallant  officer  who  eom•  tuanded  them,  and  who  proved  himself  so  worthy  of  con.  ducting  British  soldiers,  proceeded  immediately,  though  labouring  under  this  apparent  disadvantage,  to  give  JIINOT  battle.  He  acted  right,  and  in  perfect  conformity  to  the  soundest  principles  of  political  calculation  :  for  it  was  not  sufficient  to  beat  the  enemy—Europe  and  our  allieS  were  to  he  convinced,  that  our  troops  were  superior,  in  every  requisite  of  the  soldier,  to  the  vaunted  legions  of  France.—  The  battle  of  Vitneira  attested  this  superiority  ;  and  we  considered  it,  in  consideration  of  its  consequences,  as  one  Of  the  most  important  occurrences  in  our  history.  The  JAN.  ft  public  at  large  seemed  to  feel  'as  we  did;  every  tongue  was  profuse  of  applause;  and  every  countenance  glistened  with  unspeakable  pleasure,  at  the  first  account  of  this  splendid  victory.  A  defeat  of  11,000  Frenchmen  was  not  capable  of  producing  this  universal  sensation  ;  but,  whilst  our  hearts  had  cause  to  exult,  our  understandings  and  principles  were  satisfied,  that  the  affair  of  Vimiera  was  not  a  useless  scene  of  blood  and  carnage,  it  offered  to  Europe*  certainty  of  emancipation,  might  have  torn  from  its  pedestal  the  Colossus  of  French  preponderance,  destroyed  that  system  of  rapine,  itamorality,  and  carnage,  which  had  prevailed  for  nineteen  years,  and  raised  our  beloved  country  to  the  summit  of  earthly  grandeur  and  happiness.  These  were  the  consequences  the  .public  expected,  and,  had  a  right  to  expect  from  the  victory  of.  Vimiera.  Any  individual,  therefore,  however  high  his  rank,  or  pre-emi pre-eminent  nent pre-eminent  his  former  aervices,  or  distinguished  his  zeal  and.  who,  by  his  incapacity  or  pusillanimity,  marred  these  expectations,  deserves  a  measure  of  censure  propor proportionate  tionate proportionate  to  the  injury  he  has  occasioned.  We  abhor  that thatpolitical  political thatpolitical  indifference  or  faint  heartedness,  which.  is  afraid  or  unwilling  to  offend  private  feelings,  when  the  dearest  interests  of  their  country  require  this  sacrifice.  We  thank  Heaven,  we  are  also  not  without  humanity,  and  feel  as  much  reluctance  as  any  of  our  brethren  to'  contribute  tq  the  distresses  or  afflictions  of  others.  But  shall  we  be  base  enough,  from  motives  of  interest,  weakness  or  fear,  to  be  silent,  or  even  approve,  what  we  know  to  be  a  national  disaster  as  well  as  disgrace,  and  has  already  been  produCtive  of  such  signal  disadvantage  to  our  allies.  We  abhor  and  loudly  disclaim  every  party  feeling  on  the  occasion;  and  eau  boldly  appeal  to  our  readers,  if  a  single  sentiment  ever  appeared  in  the  NATIONA  L  REOISTEZ  t  which  did  not  breather  an  ardent  desire  to  see  the  honour  as  well  as  interests  of  the  country  promoted.  Unwilling,  therefore,  to  have  the  honour  of  our  arms,  or  the  reputation  of  the  country  degraded,  we  abominate,  and  will  never  cease  to  condemn,  every  measure  which  may,  in  the  slightest  sense  of  the  word,  contribute  to  either.  The  public,  in  their  addresses  to  the  Throne,  have  been  unani unanimous  mous unanimous  in  their  condemnation  of  the  Armistice  and  Conven Convention  tion Convention  of  Cintra  on  this  very  principle;  and  the  Sovereign  has  himself  declared,  that  they  disappointed  the  wishes  and  expectations  of  the  country  :  We  trust,  therefore,  that  a  more  competent  tribunal,  than  that  of  the  Board  of  Inquiry,  will  still  examine  the  merits  of  the  Armistice  and  Convention.  FOREIGN  INTELLIGENCE.  FROM  THE  FRENCU  PAPERS.  SEVENTEENTH  BULLETIN  OF  THE  ARMY  OF'  Minato,  Dtc.  10.—His  Majesty  reviewed  yesterday  on  the  Prado,  the  Duke  of  Dantzic's  corps,  which  arrived  the  day  be before  fore before  yesterday  at  Madrid.  He  expressed  his  satisfaction  at  these  brave  troops.  To.day  he  reviewed  the  troops  of  the  Confederation  of  the  Rhine,  forming  the  division  commanded  by  General  Leval.  The  regiments  of  Nassau  and  Baden  behaved  well.  The  regiment  of  Hesse  Darnutadt  did  not  sustain  the  reputntiimn  of  the  troops  of  that  country..  The  Colonel  and  Major  appear  to  be  men  of  moderate  talents.  The  Duke  of  Istria  set  off  on  the  sth  for  Guadalexera.  fie  scoured  the  whole  road  from  Saragossa  and  Valencia—  made  500  prisoners,  and  took  a  great  deal  of  ba4;ga.r  a  e.  At  Bastoa  a  bat— battalion  talion battalion  of,sooolen,  s  um  moned  by  the  cav  alry,  were  broken  id  upon.  P2_TB00010 t  1  .  _tt  wha  0  A  4  •  it...•  0  •  I  I  1111  1  1 STYLE=superscript  •  •  .  4  P2_TB00011 !•  f"
