text
"JAN.  15.  ship,  ia  my  letter  of  the  16th,  the  success  Brigadier-General  Stewart  had  met  with  met  with  in  defeatiwg  a  detachment  of  cavalry  at  Itueda.  Since  that,  few  days  have  passed  without  his  taking  or  killing  ditterent  pavtks  of  the  French,  generally  su superior  perior superior  in  force  to  those  which  attacked  them.  On  the  march  to  Sahagun,  Lord  Paget  had  information  of  6  or  700  cavalry  being  in  that  town.  lle  marched  on  the  niZilt  of  the2Oth  from  some  villages  where  he  was  posted  in  front  the  riemy  at  ,Nlajorgo,  with  the  10th  and  15th  hussars.  11:1  :aarch  , STYLE=superscript  -fl  straight  to  the  town,  whilst  Lord  Paget,  Niith  the  15th,  endeavoured  to  turn  it.  Unfortunately  he  fell  in  with  a  patrol,  one  of  whom  escaped  and  gave  the  alarm.  By  this  means  the  French  had  time  to  form  on  the  outside  of  the  town  before  Lord  Paget  got  round.  Ile  immediately  charged  them,  beat  them,  and  took  from  140  to  150  prisoners,  amongst  whom  were  two  Lieutenant Lieutenantmels  mels Lieutenantmels  and  eleven  Officers,  with  the  loss  on  our  part  of  six  or  eight  men,  and  perhaps  20  wounded.  There  have  been  taken  by  the  cavalry  from  4  to  500  French,  besides  a  considerable  number  killed  :  this  since  we  begun  our  march  from  Salamanca.  On  his  march  from  Sahagtm,  on  the  MO,  Lord  Paget,  with  two  squadrons  of  the  10th,  attacked  a  detachment  of  cavalry  at  Majorga,  killed  20,  and  took  above  100  prisoners.  Our  cavalry  is  very  superior  in  quality  to  any  the  French  have  ;  and  the  right  spirit  has  been  infused  into  them  by  the  example  and  inrtruction  of  their  two  leaders,  Lord  Paget  and  Brigadier-General  Stewart.  Astor:  a,  Dec.  31,  1808.  I  arrived  here  yesterday.  Major-General  Fraser,  with  his  division,  will  be  at  Villa  Franca  this  day,  and  will  proceed  on  to  Lugo.  Lieutenant-General  Rope,  with  his  division,  stopped  nsterday  two  leagues  from  this,  and  proceeds  this  morning,  followed  by  Sir  David  Baird.  The  two  flank  brigades  go  by  the  road  of  Penferada.  I  shall  follow,  with  the  reserve  and  cavalry,  to  Villa  Franca,  either  this  night  or  to-morrow  morn morning,  ing, morning,  according  as  I  hear  the  approach  of  the  French.  The  morning  I  marched  from  Benevente,  some  squadrons  of  Bona Bonaparte's  parte's Bonaparte's  Guards  passed  the  river  at  a  ford  above  the  bridge.  They  were  attacked  by  Brigadier-General  Stewart,  at  the  head  of  the  piquets  of  the  15th  and  3d  German  Light  Dragoons,  and  driven  across  the  ford.  Their  Colonel,  a  General  of  Division,  Lefebvre,  was  taken,  together  with  about  seventy  Officers  and  men.  The  affitir  was  well  contested.  The  numbers  with  which  Brigadier-General  Stewart  attacked  were  inferior  to  the  French  ;  it  is  the  corps  of  the  greatest  character  in  their  army;  but  the.  superiority  of  the  British  was,  lam  told,  very  conspicuous.  I  enclose,  for  your  Lordship's  satisfaction,  Lord  Paget's  report  of  it.  Benevente,  Dec.  29.  SIR--I  have  the  honour  to  inform  you,  that  about  nine  o'clock  this  morning,  1  received  a  report  that  the  enemy's  cavalry  was  in  the  act  of  crossing  the  river  at  the  ford  near  the  bridge.  I  immediately  sent  down  the  piquets  of  the  night  under  Lieutenant-  Colonel  Otway  of  the  ISth.  Having  left  orders  that  the  cavalry  should  repair  to  their  alarm  posts,  1  went  forward  to  reconnoitre,  and  found  four  squadrons  of  Imperial  Guards  formed  and  skirmishing  with  the  picquets  and  other  cavalry  in  the  act  of  passing.  I  sent  for  the  10th  hussars,  who  having  arrived,  Bri Brigadier-General  gadier-General Brigadier-General  Stewart  immediately  placed  himself  at  the  head  of  the  piquets,  and,  with  the  utmost  gallantry,  attacked.  The  10th  hussars  supported  in  the  most  perfect  order.  The  result  of  the  affair,  as  far  as  t  have  yet  been  able  to  collect,  is  about  3O  killed,  25  wounded,  70  prisoners,  and  about  the  same  number  of  horses..  It  is  impossible  for  me  to  avoid  speaking  in  the  highest  terms  of  all  those  engaged.  Otway  and  Major  Bergwidel  headed  the  respective  night  piquets.  The  latter  is  slightly  wounded.  The  utmost  zeal  was  conspicuous  in  the  whole  of  my  StiB  and  1  had  many  volunteers  from  head-quarters,  and  other  t)tiix•rs  of  your  army.  Amongst  the  prisoners  is  the  General  of  Div  ion  Lefebvre,  (who  tom-wands  the  eavalry  of  the  Imperial  Guard),  and  two  Captains.  Our  loss  is,  I  fear,  nearly  fifty  men  killed  acid  wounded.  I  will  send  a  return  the  moment  1  can.  collect  the  reports.-1  film  the  honouo  he,  Sze.  Signed)  rt STYLE=superscript  G  vr  ,Lieut.-Gencrat.  To  Lieut.-General  Sir  John  Moore,  K.  B.  1  have  forwarded  the  prisoners  to  lianiza.  On  the  other  side  of  tie  river  the  cuemy  formed  again,  and  at  this  instant  three  gulls  of  Capt.  th.movau'&amp;  troops  arrived,  which  did  considerable  execution.  p;tRTNIZRSI  I STYLE=superscript  I  is  DISSOLVED.  J.  Wyatt  and  •  11.  Wyatt,  Ashborne,  Derbyshire,  milliners  —  W.  lieyivood  and  13.  E..lleywood,  Scotch  warehousemen,  .t  .  ..!  •  :w  , STYLE=superscript  ..  •  •  •  .1"
