text
"FEB.  19.  very  excusable,—for  no  man  in  Europe  dreamt  of  resistance,  —  was  scattered  in  different  corps  throughout  the  Peninsula.  The  first  events  are  ktiown.—T  he  generous  efforts  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  Capital  ;—T  he  defeat  and  reheat  of  NIONCEY  from  Va Valencia  lencia Valencia  ;—the  noble  stand  made  by  the  city  of  Saragossa  ;—the  defeat  and  surrender  of  ()CPO  N  T  i  —and  the  flight  of  Josr.PH  from  Madrid,—these  occurrences  excited  a  degree  of  applause,  hope,  and  enthusiasm  in  this  country  which  furuished  unequivo unequivocal  cal unequivocal  proofs  that  we  were  not  prepared  for  them.  The  perform performance  ance performance  of  all  this  was  very  practicable,  and  completely  within  the  circle  of  Spanish  resources,  local,  moral,  and  political.  Every  province  acted  for  itself.  The  natives  were  not  forced  to  absent  themselves,  to  a  great  distance  from  their  homes.  The  appa apparatus  ratus apparatus  of  a  regular  and  protracted  Campaign  was  not  necessary.  The  invaders  were  in  small  corps  of  from  ten  to  fifteen  thousand  men;  unacquainted  with  the  country  and  destitute  of  provisions.  Under  these  circumstances  the  provinces,  even  with  their  con contracted  tracted contracted  means,  had  it  certainly  in  their  power  to  overwhelm  the  enemy.  But  a  new  scene  immediately  ensued.  The  invad invaders  ers invaders  sensible  of  the  mistake  they  had  committed  in  dividing  their  force,  retreated,  and  after  collecting  their  whole  strength  in  one  body,  took  a  strong  position  behind  the  Ebro.  From  that  moment  the  plan  of  operations  was  totally  altered.  The  provinces,  calculated  only  on  their  individual  resources.  They  had  their  respective  interests,  their  leaders,  their  Juntas,  and  their  armies  ;  but  there  existed  no  unity  of  action  and  con concert  cert concert  of  will  in  the  whole  Body  ;  and  as  there  was  no  individual,  or  Junta,  who  possessed  any  power,  influence,  or  confidence  beyond  their  own  province,  it  was  impossible,  all  at  once,  to  reconcile  the  different  interests,  to  efface  provincial  .  jealousies,  and  to  impress  the  importance  of  unanimity.  The  abominable  corruption,  impotence,  and  favoritism  of  the  late  government,  'the  treasonable  practices  of  the  Prince  of  the  Peace,  an:  the  exactions  of  the  subordinate  minions,  left  the  Arsenals  without  military  stores,  and  the  public  coffers  without  money.  AU  these  deficiencies  were  to  be  supplied;  and  the  poverty  of  the  inhabitants,  in  consequence  of  a  detestable  system  of  govern government,  ment, government,  the  annual  war  contributions  to  the  French,  and  the  remaining  out  of  the  usual  supplies  from  South  America,  on  account  of  hostility  with  this  country,  prevented  their  perform performing  ing performing  this  requisite  service.  These  remarks  will,  we  trust,  ac account  count account  in  a  very  satisfactory  manner,  for  the  relaxation  the  Patriots  she  wed,  after  they  had  been  liberated  from  the  pre presence  sence presence  and  exactions  of  the  enemy,  and  the  latter  had  concen concentrated  trated concentrated  themselves  behind  the  Elks•  BONAPARTE  either  desired,  from  motives  of  consummate  prudence,  to  give  the  Spanish  enthusiasm  time  to  evaporate;  or  he  wished  to  sound  the  intentions  of  Russia,  and  to  reconcile  that  court  to  the  act  of  atrocity  he  had  committed  ;  or  alarm alarmed  ed alarmed  at  the  menacing  preparations  of  Austria,  and  wishing  to  ob observe  serve observe  the  effscts  which  the  resistance  of  the  Spaniards  might  -produce  on  the  popular  feeling  in  France  and  the  rest  ef  the  Con Continent  tinent Continent  ;--or  all  these  circumstances  united,  probably  induced  him  to  deviate  from  his  usual  vigour  and  celerity.  Not  wishing  to  rely  implicitly,  in  so  alarming  a  crisis,  in  which  his  very  exist existence  ence existence  was  at  stake,  on  the  tteclarations  of  his  agents,  he  wished  to  see  ALEXANDER  face  to  face;  to  see  if  he  could  confide  in  his  protestations,  and  in  order  to  exact  new  promises,  before  he  would  come  to  a  resolution  ef  withdrawing  his  army  from  Germany.  hus  the  journey  to  Erfurt  was  resolved  on.  To  conceal  his  intentions,  and  to  give  them  even  an  air  of  Generosi Generosity,  ty, Generosity,  this  consummate  politician  acted  the  sublime  farce  of  getting  the  simple  unsuspecting  EMP  tam,.  to  intercede  for  the  evacua evacuation  tion evacuation  of  Prussia,---the  very  measure  Bo  NA  PARTE  wanted,  and  which  the  situation  of  Spain  rendered  Imperiously  urgent.  In  the  mean  time  his  armies  were  ordered  to  break  up  from  their  different  cantonments,  and  to  make  menacing  demonstrations  on  the  frontiers  of  Austria.  His  agents  had  previously  got  inserted  in  the  German  papers  articles  ad  vertin  to  the  probability  of  war  between  France  and  that  power.  The  °Meet  of  Vienna  intl•"
