text
"April  29.  James  Geddes,  C  de%  en,  at  Gui  April  24.  John  Mahlon,  Grafton-street,  St.  Pancras,  gro  , STYLE=superscript  vr,  at  one,  at  Gntld Gntldhall.  hall. Gntldhall.  Fitiro  )  --quarr,  flour-dealer,  at  May  6.  Robert  Marsh,  Old  Halley,  oilman.  at  twelve,  at  Guildhall.  May  2.  James  Chapple,  Grace's-Alley,  Wellclose-square,  110.-irr,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall.  April  :es.  Samuel  Maleolm,Old  Broad-strert,  baker,  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  CERTIFICATES—APRIL  22.  John  Carter,  Bisllopsgate-treet,  merchant.  William  Gl.Pntort,  .1.1rn”.:1-ctreet  •  St.  Jame?,  taylor.  Simon  Davi,  Upper  St.  Martin\  -lane,  cabinet-inal.,.t.  John  J,inies,  Bristol,  cooper.  John  Harrison,  WorkinOon,  Ciimlwriantl,  The  Gazette  also  contains  a  Letter  from  Capt.  Dashwood,  of  his  Majest)'c  ship  Franchise,  Kiving  an  account  of  the  capture  of  the  Fo-rich  letter  of  Icor-Tie  itrix  -enie,  Ignind  from  Bayonne  to  Guadalupe,  with  naval  Atorp;  and  pro%  Wow  , STYLE=superscript  ;  and  a  (Ater  from  Capt.  Corhett,  of  his  Maj,  -tis  ship  Nereide,  state  the  capture  of  the  French  Lnprial  corvette  La  Cohn  Mouche.  JONES  •.  JoNEs.---.lt  Shrewsbury  Assizes  an  action  was  brought  against  the  defendant,  who  keeps  the  Feathers  Inn,  at  reysham,  for  the  recovery  of  4001.  the  amount  of  the  Bank Banknotes  notes Banknotes  stolen  from  an  inside  waistcoat  pocket  of  Plaintiff's  ser servain,  vain, servain,  while  asleep  at  the  above  inn,  in  the  month  of  .November  Int.t.  The  jury,  under  the  dire  lion  of  the  Learned  Judge,  as  to  the  law  of  the  case,  found  a  verdict  for  the  plaintif  to  the  full  amount  of  the  los:4  )  400  f,  TO  OUR  READERS.  pOPULJR  PRRACH'BRS.  APRIL  2.  We  have  to  announce,  for  the  gratification  of  the  Readers  of  this  Department  of  our  Newspaper,  that  ONEstmus  pur purposes  poses purposes  entering  upon  a  critical  review  of  DR.  A  NDREN%  S'S  LUCA  URES  UN  THE  LITURGY  ;  which  commenced,  in  St.  James's  Church,  on  Sunday,  Feb.  19th,  and  terminated  on  Fri•  day,  the  31st  of  March.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  Lontion,  SUNDAY,  APRIL  2,  1809.  POLITICAL  EVENTS  OP  THE  WEEK.  CITY  MEETING.  VOTE  OF  THANKS  TO  COLONEL  WARDLE  AND  HIS  SUPPORTERS;  AND  VOTE  OF  CENStRE  ON  THE  LORD  MAYOR,  SIR  WILLIAM  crwris,silt  CHARLES  PRICE,AND  MR.ALDERMAN  SIIAW.  At  one  o'clock,  the  multitude  of  Liverymen  assembled  at  Guildhall  was  immense.  Immediately  on  the  LORD  AlAYOft  having  ascended  the  Hustings,  Mr.  WAITHMAN,  in  a  clear,  nervous,  and  manly  speech,  opened  the  business  of  the  Meeting,  and  concluded  by  submitting  the  following  very  spirited  Resolutions  to  the  consideration  of  the  Livery.  I.  Resolved,  That  it  long  been  a  matter  of  notoriety,  and  has  lately  been  proved  beyond  the  possibility  of  doubt,  that  Abuses  of  a  most  corrupt  nature  and  ruinous  tendency  have  ex existed,  isted, existed,  and  still  exist,  in  the  various  branches  of  the  administra administration  tion administration  of  Public  Affairs.  11.  Resolved,  That  to  detect  such  Abuses,  and  expose  to  de  testation  those  Men  who  have  wickedly  connived  at,  or  partici participated  pated participated  in  them,  requires  no  small  degree  of  Virtue,  Independence,  and  Patriotism  ;  all  of  which  have  been  eminently  displayed  by  Gwillim  Lloyd  Wardle,  r:q.  in  instituting  and  conducting  the  late  Inquiry  into  the  Conduct  of  his  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  York.  111.  Resolved,  That  he  is,  therefore,  entitled  to  the  Thanks  and  Gratitude  of  this  Common  Hall,  for  his  persevering  and  in independent  dependent independent  EflOrts,  which  have  already  produced  beneficial  Fl Fleets,  eets, Fleets,  and  arc  likely  to  lead  to  still  more  ad%  antageous  Results— Resultsand  and Resultsand  they  express  their  confidence,  that  having  so  manfully  and  ably  commenced  this  arduous  task,  no  difficulty  or  danger  will  damp  his  ardour,  or  impede  his  progress,  in  a  cause  so  honour honourable  able honourable  to  himself,  and  so  essential  to  the  best  Interests  of  his  Country.  IV.  Resolved,  That  upon  the  same  principles,  and  for  the  same  reasons,  they  do  highly  approve  of  the  conduct  of  Sir  Francis  Burdett,  Bart.  (the  Seconder),  Lord  V  iscount  Folk Folkstone,  stone, Folkstone,  Samuel  Whitbread,  Esq.  Sir  Samuel  Romilly,  Knt.  and  the  rest  of  the  One  Hundred  and  Twenty-five  honest  and  inde independent  pendent independent  Members,  who  supported  Mr.  Wardle's  Proposition  oo  the  15th  of  March,  1809,  and  trust,  that  uninfldenced  by  Party,  or  feelings  of  Interest,  they  will  support  every  Measure  calcu calculated  lated calculated  to  remove  and  root  out  Corruption.  V.  Resolved,  That  these  Abuses  form  only  a  part  of  a  wick wicked  ed wicked  and  corrupt  System,  which  has  been  long  acted  upon,  and  no  permanent  good  can  arise  from  the  late  Investigation,  unless  fol followed  lowed followed  up  by  a  general  Reformation  of  public  Abuses  in  every  Department  of  the  Slate.  cI.  keenl  ved,  That  the  Corporation  of  London  did,  in  peti petitions,  tions, petitions,  unanimously  agreed  to,  and  presented  to  both  !louses  of  Parliament  during  the  I&amp;.t  Sessions  state,  their  bnrthens  had  been  con:;iderably  augmented  by  gross  abuses,  in  the  ma 'ma'  rtagement  and  expenditure  of  the  Public  Money,—by  a  profit 'profit'  siim  of  sinceure  Places  and  Pcnsio►is,—which  hate  not  only  added  to  the  sutferinl:s  of  the  People,  bnt  created  a  pernicious  influence,  corrupting  and  undermining  the  free  principles  of  the  British  N  . STYLE=superscript  11.  Resolved,  That  no  measures  calculated  to  remove  theFe  opprebsicc  a:►d  alarming  evil,  ltme  been  'et  ,olopted,  CUR  APIA  L  1.  any  rational  expectation  be  formed,  that  such  measures  will  be  adopted,  while  the  management  of  public  affairs  is  in  the  hands  of  persons,  w  his  are  themselves  the  greatest  Pensioners  and  Re Reversionists  versionists Reversionists  in  the  kingdom.  Resolved,  That  it  has  since  appeared  by  a  Report  of  a  Com Committee  mittee Committee  of  the  house  of  Commons,  that  Seventy-eight  Members  of  that  House  are  in  the  receipt  of  178,9941.  per  annum,  out  of  the  public  money,  who,  with  their  Relations  and  the  Naval  and  Military  Officers  in  that  House,  must  give  a  most  preponderat preponderating  ing preponderating  and  destructive  influence  to  the  Ministers  of  the  Crown.  IX.  Resolved,  That  if  any  doubt  could  remain  as  to  the  bane baneful  ful baneful  effect  of  such  influence,  it  has  been  utliciently  exemplified  by  the  rejection  of  Mr.  Wardle's  late  proposition  in  Parliament  against  the  most  conclusive  evidence,  and  unequivocal  cmse  of  the  country  ;  and  where  it  appeared,  that  all  his  Majesty's  Minis Ministers,  ters, Ministers,  all  the  Placemen,  and  all  the  Pensioners  then  present,  (stated  to  be  eighty-two  in  number),  voted  against  the  said  Proposition;  while  of  course  in  the  minority  of  125,  not  one  Minister—not  one  Placeman—not  one  Pensioner--and  only  one  Naval  and  one  Military  Commander  was  to  be  fonfld.  X.  Resolved,  That  other  Governments  have  crumbled  into  ruin—other  States  have  been  subverted,  and  their  antient  and  venerable  Institutions  overthrown  by  the  folly,  profligacy,  and  vices  of  their  Rulers  :  and  in  the  opinion  of  this  Common  Hall,  unless  this  overwhelming  tide  of  Corruption  is  resisted  by  temper temperate  ate temperate  and  timely  Reformation,  it  must  inevitably  lead  to  the  ruin  and  subjugation  of  this  Country.  XI.  Resolved,  That  it  will  he  highly  expedient  for  the  Livery  of  London,  sometime  during  the  present  Session,  to  meet  for  the  purpose  of  laying  a  faithful  statement  of  their  Grievances  before  Parliament,  and  pray  for  redress  of  the  same.  XII.  Resolved,  That  the  Thanlcs  of  this  Common  Hall  be  given  to  Alderman  Coombe,  one  of  the  Representatives  for  this  City,  in  Parliament,  for  supporting  Mr.  Wardle's  Motion,  and  general  ineorruptable  comduct.  XIII.  Resolved,  That  Sir  William  Curtis,  Bart.  Sir  Charles  Price,  Bart.  and  James  Shaw,  Esq.  three  of  the  representatives  for  this  City  in  Parliament,  have  by  their  recent  Conduct  therein,  sliewn  a  contempt  and  disregard  for  the  Opinions  and  Interests  of  t`teir  Constituents,  a  bare  subserviency  to  the  will  of  Ministers,  and  are  therefore  unworthy  the  confidence  of  their  fellow  citizens.  XIV.  That  the  Thanks  of  this  Common  Hall  he  given  to  Robert  Waithman,  Esq.  for  his  manly  Conduct  in  this  instance;  and  for  his  zeal  and  firmness  on  all  occasions  where  the  interests  of  the  Livery  are  in  question.  XV.  Resolved,  That  the  Lord  Mayor  has,  by  refusing  to  con convene  vene convene  a  Common  Hall  on  three  different  Requisitions,  by  pre presuming  suming presuming  to  dictate  the  Terms  and  Object  of  the  present  Reqtti Reqtti;Rion,  ;Rion, Reqtti;Rion,  and  the  trouble  and  delay  he  created,  shewn  a  contempt  and  disregard  for  the  Rights  and  Privileges  of  the  Livery,  and  is  therefore  unworthy  the  Confidence  of  his  fellow  Citizens.  Mr.  ALDERMAN  CURTIS  came  forward  to  offer  himself  to  the  Livery,  but  the  disapprobation  was  so  loud  and  so  universal,  that  he  was  obliged  to  sit  down.  The  Lour)  M  IYOR  intreated  the  Livery  to  listen  with  pa patience  tience patience  to  what  every  Gentleman  might  have  to  offer  ;  on  which,  Mr.  Alderman  CURTIS  again  came  forward—The  clamour  and  interruption  were  again  renewed;  and,  after  a  few  obser observations,  vations, observations,  expressive  of  the  consciousness  of  his  motives,  he  retired,  amidst  an  universal  his  3,  accompanied  with  groaning.  Mr.  Quist,  in  a  very  able  speech,  next  addressed  the  Livery,  and  was  heard  with  profonnd  attention—he  concluded  by  con congratulating  gratulating congratulating  the  Meeting  on  their  having  an  opportunity  of  ex expressing  pressing expressing  their  sentiments.  Mr.  WA  mist  A  N  rose  again,  in  reply  to  an  observation  that  had  been  made  with  respect  to  the  'name  of  Mr.  HA  av  Coster,  not  having  been  included  in  the  Vote  of  Thanks,  which  he  proposed  to  introduce  in  a  distinct  Resolution.  A  Motion  was  then  made  to  thank  Mr.  Harvey  Combe,  which  was  carried  with  acclamation.—Mr.  Alderman  Combe  then  presented  himself  to  the  Livery,  and  was  received  with  the  loudest  cheering  and  applause.  On  the  Motion  by  Mr.WAITHMAN  %  that  in  consequence  of  the  refusal  and  delay  of  the  Lord  Mayor  in  calling  a  Common  Hall,  lie  had  lost  the  confidence  of  his  fellow  Citizens,  his  Lordship  declared  his  disapprobation  of  the  Resolation,  and  at  down  without  putting  the  question.  •  211  Mr.  WA  ifiIMAN  addressed  the  Meeting  with  great  auiina auiinaion,  ion, auiinaion,  and  stated  that  the  Lord  Mayor  refused  to  put  the  guts-  [on.  Mr.  Thiav  EV  CooMuC  expressed  extreme  indignation  at  the  conduct  of  his  LOrdship.  Mr.  Ro , STYLE=superscript  T  addressed  the  :11ecting—but  being  of  opi.  nion,  that  it  was  correct  that  the  Lord  Mayor  should  decide  on  the  propriety  of  a  Common  Hall,  was  not  suffered  to  proceed.  The  tumult  and  clamour  were  here  excessive.  At  length  the  Loan  MA  YO  rt  consented  to  put  the  question,  which  he  read  himself';  and  the  Vote  of  Censure  passed  with  the  dissent  of  about  four  hands,  amongst  almost  as  many  thousands.  The  huzas  and  acclamations  were  extreme  ;  and  on  a  Vote  of  Thanks  being  proposed  to  Mr.  W  A  LIIIII  A  N  it  was  several  k  minutes  before  the  acclamations  ceased.  We  will  make  few  observations  on  this  subject.  It  speaks  for  itself,  eloquently,  impressively  ;  and  comes  home  to  the  heart  of  every  Briton.  There  is  not  a  chord  in  the  breast  of  a  freeman,  which  does  not  vibrate,  in  har harmonious  monious harmonious  unison,  to  similar  sentiments.  They  are  the  native  language  of  a  community,  which,  for  a  century  and  a  half,  possessed  the  highest  advantages  of  practical  freedom.  How  we  glory  in  our  country,  where  similar  principles  arc  prevalent—where  similar  sentiments  may  be  expressed,  without  detriment  to  the  public  order,  without  flange;  to.  the  Speaker  !  This  is  the  practical  ditrerence  between  free  states  and  nations  writhing  under  the  lash  of  Despotism.  In  Petersburgh  or  Paris,  similar  proceedings  in  their  Town  Halls  would  be  the  signal  of  general  disorder  ;  the  immediate  precursors  of  the  overthrow  of  the  Govern►nent,  In  London,  they  consolidate  the  throne,  anii  establiof  on,  an  immutable  basis  the  public  security.  The  city  of  London,  in  every  great  and  national  concerti  formerly  played  a  pre-eminent  and  an  honourable  h;►rt.  Their  precut  proceedings  testify  that  the  ancient  spirit,  the  tOrmer  independence  preside  in  a  [fall,  where  BEc►:eunu  is  immortalised  for  the  zeal,  spirit,  and  patriotism  be  dis displayed  played displayed  there.  If  the  sl►irit  of  a  patriot  hovers  occasionally  round  the  edifices  where  a  monument  is  consecrated  to  his  virtues,  with  what  complacency  must  that  generous  citizen  have  viewed  this  new  refulgence  of  public  spirit  in  a  place.  where  his  own  was  so  conspicuous,  so  beneficial  !  Mr.  -WArrumAs  merits  the  thanks  of  his  country.  lie  is  a  disinterested,  intelligent,  and  zealous  citizen.  1,l  i  4  conduct  on  this,  and  on  most  other  occasions,_  is  worthy  of  the  highest  panegyric.  lie  proceeds  manfully  and  honestly  to  the  discharge  of  his  public  duties;  fearless  of  calumny,  unawed  by  the  frown  of  power,  and  regardless  of  the  cen censure  sure censure  of  folly.  Ills  fellow  citizens  cannot  reward  his  exer exertions  tions exertions  with  too  much  confidence  or  gratitude.  We  wish  it  were  in  our  power  to  use  the  same  language  on  the  conduct  of  the  present  LORD  MA  TOR  !  Ile  has  re resisted,  sisted, resisted,  with  inconceivable  obstinacy,  the  wishes  of  the  Li Livery  very Livery  to  convene  a  Meeting;  and  his  objections  were  so  un unaccountable,  accountable, unaccountable,  loose,  and  undefined,  that  we  were  at  a  loss  to  unravel  their  meaning.  We  abhor  party  feelings;  we  hate  popular  licentiousness  1.  but  his  heart  must  be  as  callous,  as  his  intellects  are  li►nit.  ed,  who  does  not  hail  the  spirit  and  thr  principle  on  %%hick  this  meeting.  was  convened.  It  went  to  thank  a  patrotie  individual,  an  bone3t  representative,  for  the  7Cal,  co;rage"
