text
"'  POLITICAL  DISQUISITION.  NUMBER  FIFTY-NINE.  EUA.RGES  AGAINST  TUE  DUKI  OF  YORK.  The  investigation  of  the  Committee  closed  on  Wednesday  last  ;  and  whatever  pain  or  repugnance  we  feel,  we  arc  forced,  in  compliance  willi  the  indignant  and  outraged  feelings  of  the  public,  and  our  own  sense  of  their  momentous  consequence,  to  resume  the  subject  of.  these  charges.  They  have  brought  to  light  a  mbltiaide  of  &amp;grant  abuses,  and  detectisd  a  villainous  system  of  peculation,  which  no  'nail,  who  was  anxious  either  for  the  honour  or  the  safety  of  his  country,  would  credit,  though  their  existence  was  repeatedly  alluded  to.  We  will  not  accuse  his  Royal  Highness  of  countenancing,  or  conniving  at,  the  malversations  arrverted  to  during  the  course  of  the  Inquiry  ;  and,  in  conformity  with  the  humane  and  enlightened  spirit  of  our  laws,  will  scrupulously  refrain  from  prejudging  his  conduct.  There  are  crimes  which  an  honest  man  feels  a  horror  in  attri attributing  buting attributing  to  others,  particularly  to  t  h  ose  whose  station  and  rank  preclude,  as  he  would  willingly  suppose,  the  possibil:tv  of  a  mean  or  iniquitous  action;  and  his  struggling  faith,  with  con convulsive  vulsive convulsive  grasp,  clings  fast  to  the  idea  of  human  excellency,  till  repeated  +-hocks  w  rest  from  liiin  this  fascinating  support.  These  motives  of  repugnance  to  believe  in  the  official  delin delinquency  quency delinquency  of  the  Commander  in  Chief  are  confirmed  by  the  consi consideration  deration consideration  how  much  it  is  his  interest  not  to  undermine,  by  an  encou encouragement  ragement encouragement  of  abuses,  the  veneration  and  attachment  of  the  public  for  an  establishment,  which  secures  to  him,  as  Prince  of  the  Blond,  a  number  of  advantages  and  privileges  over  the  rest  of  his  fellow:-  citizens.  If  his  understanding  be  on  a  level  with  that  of  the  bilk  of  mankind;  if  he  he  in  the  habit  of  forming  the  simplest  combi combination  nation combination  of  ideas,  or  povsess  the  pimer  of  discriminating  between  momentary  and.  permanent,  artificial  and  solid  advantage,  his  every  thought,  word,  and  action,  would  invariably  tend  to  maintain,  in  their  highest  purity.  institutions  so  favourable  to  him  individually.  To  suspect  him  of  contrary  pretensions,  or  to  accuse  him  of  being  dissatisfied  with  the  rank,  fortune,  and  influence  he  so  pre-eminently  enjoys  in  society,  and  of  a  desire  to  augment,  by  illicit  means,  the  advantages  he  already  possesses,  :tiouttl  imply  a  deficiency,  on  his  part,  of  common  feeling  and  common  understanding.  Will  any  man,  therefore,  have  the  courage  to  condemn  us  if  we  still  entertain  hopes  that  the  Com Commander  mander Commander  in.  Chief  might  haye  been  ignorant  of  the  infamous  traffic  which  some  vile  miscreants  carried  .  on  under  the  cover  of  his  W  name.  e  may  be  accused  of  weakness,  of  want  pf  courage  and  patriotikm  ;  but  we  must  confess  we  would  feela  .horror  in  believinglhim  •  capable  of  associating  with  a  Mrs.  Clcke,  s  a  anda.:  Captain  Sandon,  fpr  the,igripininious  purpos  e  of  converting  the  patronage  of  the  Army  into  the  means  of  gratify gratifying  ing gratifying  his  private  vices,  and  the  extravagant  _wants  of  his  mistress.  We  cannot  fix  on  the  idea  butlvith  -horror  It  is  too  mortifying  for  human  nature,  human  reation,  and  human  pride.  Whilst  ,Europe  still  resounds  with  the  crash  of  so  many  thrones,  and  we  ihudder_atthe  misery  and  degradation  of  so  many  powerful  em empires--whilst  pires--whilst empires--whilst  the  tremendous  and  instructive  example  of  de dethroned  throned dethroned  and  fugitive  kings,  descending  from  the  glare  of  great greatness  ness greatness  into  the  horrid  gloom  of  a  prison,  or  depending  for  subsist subsistence  ence subsistence  on  the  generosity  and  commiseration  of  strangers,  strikes  to  with  awe,  and  Impresses  the  instnbility  of  Lipman  grandeur;  .whilst.the  conviekta.rushess  at  .titelatpe  .  iattafttorpory  .  iinds,  Pol.  11.--Ife.  LX  I.  that  the  extravagance  of  kept  mistresse7.  l  the  panderisin  of  mini  , STYLE=superscript  .  ons,  the  base  servility  of  courtiers,  the  treacherous  complacency  Of  ministers,  the  arrtiganee  and  infatuation  of  princes,  and  the  «path!,  of  the  people,  were  the  principal,  Perhelps  the  sole  cause  of  these  complicated  calamities;—we  naturally  hesitate  to  at atjinow  jinow atjinow  ledge  the  existence  of  similar  vices  at  home,  from  the  cer certainty  tainty certainty  we  have  of  their  leading  to  similar  consequences.  After  the  tremendous  and  'the  recent  example  of  the  !Welt  , STYLE=superscript  no  N  5,  and  the  still  more  impressive  lesson  of  an  obscure  Corsi Corsican  can Corsican  Adventurer  lording  it  over  the  prostrate  Princes  and  Nations  of  the.  earth,  to  imply,  on  the  part  of  the  Duce  of  Yoitt,  a  knowledge  of  the  infamous  transactions  which  have  been  exis  posed  in  the  Committee,  would  be  to  accuse  him  in  direct  terms  of  a  turpitude  of  character,  of  a  depravity  of  heart  and  head,  a  stupidity  of  intellect,  and  a  bold,  unreflecting  contempt  of  forms  and  opinions,  which  would  place  him  far  beneath  the  level  and  estimation  of  No  language  would  furnish  a  comparison,  the  records  of  human  perversity  do  not  afford  a  corresponding  pre precedent  cedent precedent  to  mark  our  horror  and  indignation.  But  no,  no  :  we  re reject  ject reject  the  imputation  with  contempt;  as  tonyiying  too  mortifying  an  opinion  of  rank,  education,  and  every  thing  pre-eminent  or  useful  in  society.  But  thougb  we  do  not  hesitate,  for  the  honour  of  human  na nature,  ture, nature,  to  acquit  him  of  these  charges;  WeEdill  bestow  the  most  unlimited  and  um/notified  approbation  on  the  man  who  institut•  ed  them.  Ilk  conduct  and  courage  have  already  raised  him  to  a  level  with  ii  A  mur.  ,  VON  Lir,  and  Lord  iiiISSEL•  Eternal  gratitude  to  Mr.  W  A  untE  for  his  patriotism  and  intrepidity  !  These  virtues  were  long  dormant  iu  this  coutrtry  and,  we  trito,  their  resuscitation  will  be  productive  of  the  double  advintta::e,  of  securing  the  State  from  foreign  subjection,  and  preset-%  biz.  it  against  the  undermining  etrortsof  dome,tic  corruption.  yaw yawpies  pies yawpies  of  this  kind  were  ardently  looked  for,  and  became  imperi.  misty  urgent  ;  for  the  impetus  and  irritation  they  give  to  the  popular  feeling  are  alone  capable  of  creating  and  supporting  - STYLE=superscript  a  degree  of  energy  equivalent  to  the  tiectuntilatfug  anealaraing  danger  of  our  situation.  Yreedoai  and  national  greatness  cannot  .  exist  long  .  without  these  violent  passions  ;  and  persons,  who,  in  or  di  n  ary  times,  have  been  pitied,  or  laughed  at,  for  their  ec eccentricity,  centricity, eccentricity,  feSiieSSne...:S,  ex  travagauce,  and  Originality,  have  pro procured,  cured, procured,  to  the.  sacrifice  of  their  intrividuat  ease,  and  frequently  of  their  lives,  for  us,  in  common  with  other'fieetitates,  •  -  •  the  ads  an-  Cages  we  boast  of  and  enjoy.  Our  cool,  fOrmal,  sedate',  I)l4d I)l4dditto.,  ditto., I)l4dditto.,  regular,  and  tool  men  keep  aloof  on  these  decisive  'Ocia 'Ociasions  sions 'Ociasions  ;  and  possess,,When  the  enthusiasts,  whose  impetuosity  and  rashness  they  condemned,  are  no  wore,  the  fruits  cif  their  . STYLE=superscript  eiter.  tiOns  and  sublime  devotion.  Bat  thou  r  h  We  were  willing  to  acquit  his  Royal  ifighness  of  conniving  at  the  mal-praetises  of'  Dirs.  Clarke,  suiPielan,  however,  attaches  to  his  character;  and  he  and  his  fr;ends,  and  .the  public  .  must  be  convinced  of  the  expediency  of  noj  having  his'inya  . STYLE=superscript  ocence  hereafter  called  in  quest,  n;  that  he  may  not  be  condemned  r  t  ,ithuut  atrial,  or  be  ;deprived  e  benefit  pro,teclion  eolitch  is  aturdedto  every  subject  - STYLE=superscript  by  those  sanctions,  under  trAich  akne  euictenee  is  e;eccived  in  the  ardbiary  administration  of  the  Tne'  more  his  Royal  highness  is  comcious  of  his  innocence,  the  more  peremptorily  he  should  •  challenge  inquiry,  the  more  .strenuoukly  oiou'lo  insist  on  the  necessity  of  his  being  brought  to  !nut,  in  order  to  chew  his  .deference  for  the  institutions  of  tkis  country,  to  prove  the  equality  of  our  laws,  and  to  avoid  painful  surmises  of  undue  g  influence  t.•  Laving  been  exerted  in  his  behalf.  No  man.is  more  persanull,y  terested  lo  maintaiung,iu  its  utmost  purity,  the  spirit  of  the  GM.*  S  1.  i.  .  MI  !..  P1_TB00018 •  )  •  P1_TB00019 preclude,  as  he  would  willingly  suppose,  the  possibility  or  a  re,  'or  tor  1101;UUL  Itt  ssu  sss  is  ii  sin—  ,  But  thou“t  we  do  not  nesun  1,.  Mean  or  iniquitous  action;  and  his  struggling  faith,  with  con-  ture,  to  acquit  him  of  these  charges;  WeEctill  bestow  the  most  vulsive  grasp,  clings  fast  to  the  idea  of  human  excellency,  till  unlimited  and  uniinalitied  approbation  on  the  man  who  institut.  F  .  repeated  +-hocks  wrest  fro  m  him  this  fascinating  support.  These  'natives  of  repugnance  to  believe  in  the  official  delta-  ed  them.  ilk  conduct  and  courage  ha  v STYLE=superscript  e  a  lread STYLE=superscript  y  raised STYLE=superscript  him STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  a  level  with  ilAmur.N,  gIiDNEY;  and  Lord  II.tISSEL•  Eternal  ,••  .  quency  of  the  Commander  in  Chief  are  confirmed  by  the  consi-  II  ‘Yratitude  to  Mr.  WA  IL  IME  for  his  patriotism  and  intrepidity  !  •.,  ,  deration  how  much  it  is  his  interest  not  to  undermine,  by  an  encou-  b  These  virtues  were  long  dormant  iu  this  country  :  and,  we  frif:/  t  ragement  of  abuses,  the  veneration  and  attachment  of  the  public  i  for  an  establishment,  which  secures  to  him,  as  Prince  of  the  Blond,  their  resuscitation  will  be  produc  tive STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  double STYLE=superscript  adyNittae, STYLE=superscript  .  •  of  securing  the  State  from  foreign  subjection,  and  preset  - STYLE=superscript  %  itiz  IL  ';,  privileges  over  the  rest  of  his  fello  es  and  nu  mber  of  advanta  a  g  w-  against  the  undermining  etrorts  of  dome,tic  corruption.  Evittr-  .t.'  citizens.  If  his  understanding  be  on  a  level  with  that  of  the  liulk  .  4 STYLE=superscript  7  pies  of  this  kind  were  ardently  looked  for,  and  became  imperi.  of  mankind;  if  lie  he  in  the  habit  of  forming  the  simplest  combi-  ously  u  r  g  ent;  for  the  impetus  and  irritation  they  give  to  the  1  - STYLE=superscript  s:  nation  of  ideas,  or  povsess  the  power  of  discriminating  between  f  - STYLE=superscript  popular  feeling  are  alone  capable  of  creating  . STYLE=superscript  and  supporting  a  1  momentary  and.  permanent,  artificial  an  d  lid STYLE=superscript  advanta STYLE=superscript  g  e STYLE=superscript  '  his STYLE=superscript  1 STYLE=superscript  degree  of  energy  equivalent  to  the  acetinittlatfug  and'alartiAnw  every  thought,  word,  and  action,  would  invariably  tend  to  danger  of  our  situation.  Freedmie  and  . STYLE=superscript  wit  Intuit  4  , STYLE=superscript  reatitess  Catint7t  maintain,  in  their  highe,st  purity.  institutions  so  favouNthle  to  ex  it  long  .without  these  violent  passions;  and  perions,  W  fin,  in  r  him  individually.  To  suspect  him  of  contrary  pretensions,  or  ordinarY  times,  have  been  pitied,  or  loughtid  at,'  flit-  their  ec-  to  accuse  him  of  being  dissatisfied  with  the  rank,  fortune,  and  1  01.1  t  .),  have  pro-  :•  influence  he  so  pre-eminently  enjoys  in  society,  and  of  a  desire  _  centricity,  festlessnc-ss,  ex  travagauctcand  i►ri  '  ;1';  •.  •  cured,  intie  sacrifice  of  their  individual  ease,  and  frequently  of  o  to  augment,  by  illicit  means,  the  advantages  healready  possesses,  '  ,  their  lives,,for  us,  hi  cemmon  with  other  titates  z STYLE=superscript  ,  the  ti'd%'an-  :tioutiti  imply  a  deficiency,  on  his  part,  of  common  feeling  an  di  !, STYLE=superscript  t  sedate,  '  4 STYLE=superscript  ‘lages`we  b  o  ast  of  and  enjoy.  Our  Cool,  formal,  phut-  common  understanding.  Will  any  man,  therefore,  have  the  ding,  regular,  and  loyal  men  keep  aloof  on  these  decislie  'Ocia-  •  •  codrage  to  condemn  us  if  we  still  entertain  hopes  that  the  * STYLE=superscript  Cinn-  .  sio'n  b STYLE=superscript  s  , STYLE=superscript  ;  a  - STYLE=superscript  riditn  ' STYLE=superscript  Siess,.4;en  the  enthusiasts  ,'  whose  itnpettiosity  and  I  !mintier  in.chkef  might  have  been  ignorant  of  infamous  traffic  '  '  rashness  they  condemned,  area  no  wore,  the  fruits  ilf  their  . STYLE=superscript  eiter.  Iteltich  some  vile  miscreants  carried  on  under  the  cover  of  his,  ;.-  •  -  -  •  -  twits  and  sublime  devotion.  .  name.  We  may  be  accused  of  weakness,  ,  f)  :  f  . STYLE=superscript  want  pf  COUra;rf  gut  thou  g  h  .  But  though  we  were  willing  to  acquit  his  Royal  ilighnets  and  patriotikat  ;  but  we  must  confess  we  would  feel  a  horror  in  of  •  .  ,  1 STYLE=superscript  -  •-  •  •  -  conniving  at  the  mal-practises  of  Dirs.  Clarke,  stiiiiician,  believinglhim•  capable  of  associating  with  a  Nts.  Clacke,  a  •  -  ••  •  •..  however,  attache,s  to  his  character  ;  and  he  and  his  fr;ends,  1  113onovou,  anda.:  Captain  Sandon,  fpr  theignpininious  purpose  o  f  •_  _  i,  1  scncy  converting  the  patronage  of  the  Army  into  the  Weans  of  gratify-  And  .  the  pwbiic  ,must  be  conv  i  nc  ed  of  the  expe  I'  '•&#34;  of  not  having  his  inyaocence  hereafter  called  in  quest,  'n;  the  he  may  ing  his  private  vices,  and  the  extravagant_wants  of  his  mistress.  nat'beeondentned  ‘oithont  a  trial,  nor  be  dipriveil  of  the  benefit  We  cannot  fi  x  on  the  idea  butleith  horror  '  It  is  too  mortifying  •  ,  -••  .  •  •  for  human  nature,  human  reation,  and  human  pride.  Whilst  and  protecliois  A/40  is  afrorded  to  every  11•itiSh  snkjirt  - STYLE=superscript  by  those  .  ..  •►.  .  .  sanctions,  under  which  alone  evidence  is  received  in  the  ardbaury  i  ,Europe  still  resounds  with  the  crash  of  so  many  thrones,  and  we  adininisiration  of  the  Ttie  more  his  Royal  ilighnesi  is  Ohudder_atthe  misery  and  degradation  of  so  many  powerful  em-'  1  pires-  7  --whilst  the  tremendous  and  instructive  example  of  de-  conscious  tif  his  innocence,  the  more  peremptorily  he  should  ..  .  h  u  .  1  .  ,  the  I  challenge  inquiry,  .the  more  .strenuonkly  ie_s  it  d  insist  on  throned  and  fugitive  kings,  descending  from  the  glare  of  great-  t?  necessity  of  his  being  brought  to  irinl,  in  order  to  sliew  .his  mess  into  the  horrid  gloom  of  a  prison,  or  depending  for  subsist.-  to  ileference  for  the  institutions  of  his  eounkry,  to  prove  the  equality  sacs  on  the  generosity  and  commiseration  of  strangers,  strik  es  .„  ,-,  ~  ,  t‘•  ,  of  our  laws,  and  to  avoid  pain  f  ul  surmises  or  eudge  influence  with  awe,  and  impresses  the  insinbility  of  Lipman  grandeur  ;  having  been  exerted  in  his  behalf.  No  man  is  more  in.  .whilst.the  cOnvi.ction.rushess  At  .tkelarae  iTtittrt,ahp  s  arF  .  tinds,  timested  in  inaintaiung,iu  its  utmost  purit;',  the  spirit  of  the  con-  Pol.  11.---Ifs.  LX  I.  ,  :"
