text
"TIIE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  John  Jackson,  Farnham,  Surrey,  surgeon,  Feb.  28,  March  7,  at  twelve,  and  .April  8,  at  one,  at  Guildhall,  London.  Attorney,  31r.  PeHatt,  Ironmonger-hall,  Fenchurch-street.  Joseph  Brooks,  St.  John-street,  West  Smithfield,  hardware hardwareman,  man, hardwareman,  March  .1,  11,  and  April  8,  at  twelve,  at  Guildhall.  At Attorney,  torney, Attorney,  Mr.  Batt  ye,  Chancery-lane.  Walter  Turnbull,  0  xford-street,  music  -seller,  Feb.  28,  March  9,  and  April  8,  at  one,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Wood,  Richmond-buildings,  Soho.  dressOg-room  was  broken  open,  and  her  bureau,  looking lookinggtasscs,  gtasscs, lookinggtasscs,  &amp;c.  were  conveyed  away.  The  treasury  was  tent  lo.iked  to,  some  gentlemen  present  having  directed  the  attention  of  about  a  dozen  persons  who  were  in  the  house  thither,  and  all  the  banks,  papers,  &amp;c.  were  conveyed  away  to  the  homes  of  Mr.  Grubb,  Mr.-Bowley,  in  Bussell.street,  and  Mr.  Kene  p  in  Tavistock•;stceet.  These  books  and  papers,  ra  ith  the  articles(  from  Mrs.  Jordan's  rooms,  were  the  only  things  saved.  persons  interested  in  the  Theatre  speedily  arrived,  bat  thee,  together  with  the  performers,  were  In  time  only  to  witness  the  destruction  of  their  property.  At  this  moment,  Mr.  Peake,  the  Treasurer,  arrived  in  a  state  of  agitation  not  easily  to  he  described,  and,  aouinst  the  repeated  advice  of  his  friends,  resolutely  went  to  the  Treasury,  and  succeeded  is  getting  away  other  private  papers.  The  Theatre  was  at  this  time  kft  to  .ts  fate,  and  the  appearance  was  most  awfully  and  tremendously  grand.  Never  before  did  we  behold  so  immense  a  body  of  flame,  and  the  occasional  ex  pinrions  that  took  place  were  awful  in  ap  pearatire  beyond  description.  The  iaterior  VAS  completely  destroyed  by  one  o'clock,  and  some  of  the  walls  bad  Mien  in  at  that  time  _  _  _  We  regret  ►o  stale,  that  the  solidity  of  the  *all  , STYLE=superscript  ,  upon  which  the  Architect  and  the  Managers  placed  the  most  conaident  reli reliance,  ance, reliance,  has  failed,  and  the  greater  part  of  them  have  given  wa}•.  Shortly  after  one  o'clock  the  chief  part  of  the  front  in  Russell  and  Brydges-street  fell  in  with  a  horrible  crash,  and  before  two,  the  side  in  Vinegar-yard  fell  with  a  dreadful  noise,  in  an  uut-  ward  direction.  About  twelve  o'clock  intelligence  of  the  conflagration  reached  the  House  of  Commons.  The  fire  was  then  rngin4  with  the  greatest  fury,  and  distinctly  visible  from  the  gatiry  windows.  Several  oft  he  Members  quitted  the  llouse  and  went  upon  West Westminster  minster Westminster  Bridge  to  view  the  flames,  w  164  h,  from  that  point  pre presented  sented presented  a  spectacle  more  sublimely  terrific  than  au)  that  11;ss  been  witnessed  in  this  capital  since  the  fire  of  1606.  Those  w  tw  s  re reci►llect  ci►llect reci►llect  how  beautiful  and  conspicuous  an  object  the  Theatre  ap appeared  peared appeared  from  the  bridge,  may  form  some  coneepti;m  of  the  aw.  ful  spectacle  it  exhibited  glowing  in  every  part  wit  it  ignited  matter.  The  horizon  was  so  illumined  with  the  flames,  that  every  steeple  from  Whitechapel  to  Westmint.ter  Abbey  was  as'  visible  as  at  noon  day  ;  and  the  reflection  of  so  immense  a  bialy  of  light  on  the  river  considerably  added  to  the  anoint  Arany  .  deur  of  the  scene.  It  was  in  truth  a  compliment  of  the  highest  tuttnre  to  Sir  ridan,  ho  %vas  in  the  House,  that  the  representati.e.  at  British  people  should  participate  in  his  distresl:,  and  lapat..i.re  in  his  feelings.  Air.  W.  Elliot  and  Lord  Temple  suggested  the  proprirt‘  of  au  adjournment,  in  consideration  af  the  great  personal  cal.,  which  the  house  had  been  just  informed  hail  befallen  a  Right  Hon.  Gent.  (Mr.  Sheridan)  for  whom  every  one  must  feel.  lir.  Sheridan  in  a  low  tone  of  voice,  and  e%  i  dent!  y  auxit  af affected,  fected, affected,  said  he  did  not  think  the  wisfortnue  which  had  happened  to  himself  was  of  a  proper  !sawn,  to  interrupt  the  procteaings  of  the  !louse.  This  sentiment  was  with  difficulty  acquiesced  its  and  the  debate  proceeded.  We  rejoice  to  state  that  the  fire  extended  no  further  than  the  ruins  of  the  Theatre,  with  the  exception  of  stltuc  slight  damage  done  to  Mr.  Beath's  oyster-shop,  and  Nathan's  fruit-shop,  in  Vinegar-yard,  which  was  occasioned  by  the  falling  of  the  %%alit  of  the  Theatre  in  that  direction.  Some  of  the  houses  partially  caught  fire  in  Russel-street,  hut  the  engines  with  a  plentiful  sup supply  ply supply  of  water,  continued  to  play  on  the  houses  contiguous  to  the  Theatre.  The  walls  ia  every  quarter  have  been  oKerwhelemed  t  with  the  exception  of  those  caustituting  the  cast  end,  towards  Drury-lane.  It  turns  out  that  the  edifice  was  erected  on  timber  piers,  cased  with  stone.  The  destruetiou  of  the  whole  building  is  of  course  easily  accounted  fur.  It  is  positively  stated,  that  the  a  atchman  of  the  Theatre,  after  going  his  rounds  at  nine  o'clock,  announced,  its  the  u-nat  wa),  that  all  was  well.  The  Insurance  Offices  will  he  very  cow:4er cow:4erable  able cow:4erable  sufferers.  In  consequence  of  the  late  tire  :.;  Ca‘tait-gitrden  Theatre,  it  was  deemed  prudent  to  enlarge  the  if:stir:awe  of  the  Drury-lane  property.  'The  whole  of  the  insurances  etiected  amounts  to  about  10,0001.  It  is  not  quite  a  Inman  since  au  in insurance  surance insurance  for  10,00  W.  was  refused  by  the...  Albion  and  the  (dont  Offices.  No  tre  has  oceurred  fur  the  last  fifty  years  in  thu  metropolis;  that  has  been  attended  with  :sac,'  rap  id.  loaf  aeei  s  :isp  destruction.  .  It  is  due  to  the  exertions  of  the  firemen  be:longing  to  the  diffe.reat  Offices,  to  observe,  that  they  worked  the  engiaes  with  •  incessant  labour  •  and  great  judgment..  MI  their  Worts  were,  however,  in  vain;  and  it  was  found  totally  impost:4de  to  preserve  a  single  aesOge  of  the  interior.of  the  house.  The,  mat mattituda  tituda mattituda  assembled  on  the  feceesiOD  .4tllo  .  140`  Ai,le#Si-  albund.ed"
