text
"THE  NATIONA  L  REGISTER:  ever  ingenious.  The  idea  of  a  new  Continental  war,  was,  therefore,  regarded  as  the  delirious  dream  of  a  feverish  visionary,  as  the.  wild  fancy  of  an  over-heated  fanatic.  —But  our  conjectures  rested  on  the  immutable  laws  of  human  feelings,  whi.  h  act  with  equal  force,  allowing  some  trifling  differences  for  peculiar  institutions,  on  the  Danube,  the  Spree,  the  Scheldt,  the  Ebro,  and  the  Thames.  The  nations  of  the  Continent  were  lost  in  a  momentary  trance,  is  consequence  of  the  dreadful,  the  'unexpected  reverses  they  had  sustained  ;  and  as  long  as  this  paroxism  lasted  they  were  insensible  to  the  accumulating  outrages  which  were  inflicted  on  them.  This  excessi,  e  torpor  induced  the  torturer,  and  even  those  who  most  sympathised  in  the  fate.  of  the  Continent,  to  conclude  that  every  spark  of  feeling,  of  honour,  of  patriotism,  was  extinguished.  But  excessive  injuries,  we  long  foresaw,  would  recal  life,  and  with  re returning  turning returning  sensibility,  the  keenest  sense  of  the  inflicted  injuries.  Austria  has  been  at  lac  kicked  and  bulfetted  out  of  her  torpor  ;  and  even  Prussia  is  g  iving  s:.inplonis  of  returning  life,  whilst  a  few  groans  procl  aim  the  resuscitation  of  Rus Russia.  sia. Russia.  It  is  impossible  to  deny  that  a  total  change  has  taken  place  in  the  sentiments  of  the  Continental  Cabinets,  and,  what  we  consider  of  far  greater  importance,  in  those  of  their  subjects.  The  excessive  danger,  the  accumu accumulating  lating accumulating  insults,  the  never  ceasing  exactions,  have  over overcome  come overcome  every  remoter  consideration  ;  and,  notwithstand notwithstanding  ing notwithstanding  the  experience  of  the  past,  dispiriting  as  it  is,  the  resolution  has  been  silently  and  progressively  matur maturing,  ing, maturing,  to  make  another  ett'ort,  formidable  from  the  despe desperate  rate desperate  conviction  that  it  will  be  the  lasf,  to  recover  former  dignity  and  independence.  Every  delusion  is  now  over  ;  every  petty  prejudice  and  alarm  have  finally  vanished  ;  and  the  slightest  demonstration  against  Austria  excites  as  much  interest  and  apprehension  at  Berlin  and  Dresden,  as  at  Vienna.  The  provinces  on  the  Rhine,  the  Oder,  and  the  Elbe  will  feel  the  blow  as  acutely,  as  those  situated  on  the  Danube.  We  cannot  help,  on  this  occasion,  alluding  to  the  gross`  misrepresentation  which  predominates  in  this  country,  re relative  lative relative  to  the  actual  resources  of  Austria.  They  have  been  always  very  considerable;  and  great  moral  causes  have  now  contributed  to  double  their  effect  and  extent.  A  Go Government,  vernment, Government,  mild  and  humane  in  its  operations,  which  has  at  its  control  a  population  of  24,000,000,  inhabiting  the  most  fertile  provinces  in  Europe,  may  defy  the  united  ellbrts  of  the  Continent,  if  it  only  know  to  make  an  adequate  use  of  its  moral  and  physical  means.  Great  abuses,  and  grosser  -errors,  incidental  to  human  affairs,  have  prevented  the  complete  Sevelepement  of  the  national  energy  ;  and  pre prejudices  judices prejudices  cadmic:lay  and  overweening  confidence,  the  unfor unforinmate  inmate unforinmate  inheritance  of  States,  as  well  as  individuals,  have  occasioned  the  recent  misfortunes  of  that  power.  But  the  infatuation  is  now  over  ;  and  the  film  is  as  completely  re re:moved  :moved re:moved  from  the  eyh  of  the  Peasant,  as  from  that  of  the.  .Statesman.  This  operation  has  taken  place,  three  years  ago,  and  since  that  lime,  they  have  seen  clearly  and  dis distinctly  tinctly distinctly  the  danger  that  menaces  them.  The  late  organization  of  the  military  force  on  a  plan  suf sufficient  ficient sufficient  to  alarm  all  the  jealousy  of  the  enemy,  and  the  :appointments  to  the  command  of  the  eight  corps,  into  which  it  has  been  divided,  shew  that  the  rentine  and  ar arrangements  rangements arrangements  of  ordinal)  , STYLE=superscript  times  have  been  totally  exploded  from  the  Austrian  councils.  Officers  of  talent,  of  twenty  years  service,  of  tried  integrity,  of  experience  acquired  during  fifteen  campaigns,  fill  the  places,  formerly  occupied  by  the  miserable  creatures  of  intrigue  and  improper  in influence.  fluence. influence.  The  genius  of  the  Archduke  Charles,  seconded  by  the  efforts  and  wishes  of  the  enlightened  and  patriotic,  has  succeeded  in  introducing  a  reform,  which  has  extended  to  the  minutest  branch  of  the  military  department;  and  the  Army  has  not  only  increased  in  physical,  but  also  in  moral,  strength.  We  have  lately  given  an  estimate  of  its  numerical  force;  and  we  still  believe  that  its  regular  army,  in  opposition  to  the  Paris  article  inserted,  by  authority,  in  the  Leyden  Gazette,  amounts  to  more  than  300,000  men  ;  exclusive  of  P14_TB00009 we  nave  lately  given  an  esurnate  of  thea  n  d  tv  - STYLE=superscript  e  Parisstill  a  t  believel  article  that  inserted,  Gazette,  amounts  to  inure  than  its  liumericas  14/[lr  ;  it  s  regular  b  a  ri  ;  iz  a  o  r  i  m  .i  j  y  y  ,  ii  .  )  opposition  i  e  o  y  n  d  e  t:  300,900  men  ;  exclusive  of  .  •  /s  , STYLE=superscript  t.tßai  ._..z.~.  the  Hungarian  insurrection,  and  the  unmet  ous  ised  militia.  We  still  adhere  to  our  former  opnion  to  the  force  which  France  has  in  this  monlerit  at  Inc:  dis disposal  posal disposal  ;  and,  under  all  these  circumstances,  we  hail  this  new  war,  as  offering  a  very  fair  chance  of  success  on  tin:  irito  of  Austria.  71711;SpD  r  LO.VDU  G  rIZ  LT7II.  TITE  NATIONAL/  tiEtasTER.  1  have  the  honour  tube,  &amp;c.  December  1808.  rr  had,  as  thi,  sedler  Officers  in  the  Bay  had  not  officiaily  altered  . STYLE=superscript  the  orders  I  received  from  yonr  Lordship,  to  give  every  possible  assistance  to  the  Spaniards,  I  thought  this  a  good  opportunity,  be  occupying  a  post  on  which  the  acknow  !edged  safety  of  the  cita citadel  del citadel  depended,  to  render  them  eteetual  swry  ice.  The  garrison  thee  consisted  of  about  eighty  Spaniards,  and  %vere  on  the  point  of  surrendering;  accordingly  1  threw  myself  into  it,  with  fifty  seamen  and  thirty  marines  of  the  Itnrerieuse.  The  arrange arrange:nent  :nent arrange:nent  made  1  need  not  detail  to  your  Lordship,  suffice  it  to  say,  that,  ahout  one  thousand  bags,  besides  barrels  and  pallisadoes  supplied  the  place  of  walls  and  ditches  ;  and  that  the  enemy,  ee  ho  assaulted  the  castle  on  the  20th  with  a  thousand  picked  men,  were  repulsed,  with  the  loss  of  their  Commanding  Officer,  storming  equipage,  and  all  who  attempted  to  mount  the  breach.  Then  follows  his  Lordships  commendat  ions  of  the  officers  and  men  who  distinguished  themselves.  Laril  Cochrane  after  wards  continues,  the  Citadel  of  Rosas  capitulated  at  twelve  o'clock  this  day.  Seeing,  my  Lord,  further  resistance  in  the  castle  of  Trinidad  useless  and  impracticable  against  the  whole  army,  the  attention  of  which  had  natuatly  turned  to  its  reduction,  after  firing  the  trains  for  exploding  the  Magizines,  we  embarked  ie  the  boats  of  the  Magnificent,  Imperieuse,  and  Fame.  COCHRANE.  List  of  killed  and  wounded,  between  the  23d  November  and  Mb  John  Lloyd,  John  Hitchins,  and  NVilliam  Fawkes,  marines,  killed  ;  four  seamen  and  three  marines  wounded.  Spaniards  of  the  Regiment  of  Ultonia.—Two  killed  and  firs  wounded,  Admiralty  Office,  March  11,  1809.  Rear  Admiral  Stopford  to  the  Hon.  W.  W.  Pole,  dated  Cesar,  at  anchor,  March  2,  1809,  Chassiron  Light-House  S.E.  S.  11  miles,  Baleiite  Light-House  N.  E.  4  miles.  Wind  North.  The  enemy's  ships  remain  at  lsle  d'  Ai  x.  On  the2Bth  I  close closely  ly closely  reconnoitered  them  in  the  Caesar,  and  only  counted  ten  sail  of  the  line,  four  frigates,  and  the  Calcutta.  The  eleventh  ship  of  the  line  was  observed  on  her  beam  ends,  with  all  her  masts  gone,  and  apparently  bilged.  She  grounded  upon  the  shoal  called  Les  Pallas  within  1.'1%1e  d'Aix  ;  and  i=  the  same  ship  mentioned  in  my  letter  of  the  27th  ult.  supposed  by  Capt.  Seymour  to  have  been  a  frigate.  From  many  eirumstances  I.  apprehend  this  ship  is  the  Warsaw,  a  new  SO.  There  are  two  Rear-Admirals'  flags  and  a  broad  pendant  at  the  main.  One  Rear-Admiral  is  on  board  thel-decker.  •  _  _  _  The  enemy's  frigates  remain  at  the  Sables  d'Olonne.  One  of  them  is  abandoned  by  the  crew,  and  bilged  upon  the  beach  ;  another  is  hauled  up  close  to  .the  opening  of  a  small  inlet,  hut  :grounding  every  tide;  and  the  third  k  in  the  same  situation,  but  not  quite  so  near  thelaket.  These  two  last  appear  to  Boat  at  high  water,  but  are  on  their  beam-ends  at  •low  water;  a  we.atern  swell,  which  has  set  in,  will  completely  destroy  theta.  The  lost  of  a  French  line  of  battle  ship  is  confirmed  by  the  masters  or  three  doggers  which  came  out  of  the  Charante,  and  were  boarded  in  .  the  night.  by  our  frigates,  but  they  did  out  . STYLE=superscript  knoW  • STYLE=superscript  her  name.  BANK  RUPTCI  EY  EN  L  ARfl  ED.  '  Stephen  Eccles,  Cannon-street  Road,  - STYLE=superscript  St.  George's  in  the  East,  mason;'from  March  18  to  April  18,  at  elevcu,  at  Gaild  Aspland  Kensington,  cheesemonger,  from  March  11  to  A  pril  IS,  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  •-  Robert  Rumbold,  Burr-street,  Wapping,  merchant,  March  18,  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  BANKRUPTCY  SUPERSEDED.  •  Benjamin  Lancaster,  Scarborough,  ship-owner.  BANKRUPTS.  William  Garnham  Bromley,  and  Robert  Smith,  Bishopsgate Bishopsgatestreet.  street. Bishopsgatestreet.  auctioneers,  to  surrender  March  14,  and  April  22,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Adams,  Old  Jewry.  11  arj  Hilliar,  Haymarket,  umbrella-maker,  March  13,  25  1  ,  and  April  at  twelve,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Bugby,  Symond's  Inn,  Chancery-lane.  Thomas  Martin,  'Birmingham,  cordwainer,  April  3,4,  at  twelve,  aad  22,  tt  elev,li,  at  the  White  Hart  Inn,  Birmingham.  A!tgrnies,  Alessi...  Baiers  and  Martin,  Furnival's  Inn,  London  ;  awl  Dir.  Webb,  Birmingham.  JobnCharle  - STYLE=superscript  s,  Iste!;are,  Aloomouthshire,  tiinber  denier,  March  and  April  '22,  at  twelve,  at  the  Beaufoll  Arms,  :1;:land  ,  •  Monmouthshire.  A  ttorbies,  Mr.  Harris,  ill.laut;otth  ;  and  Mr.  Williams  Red  Lion-11,,re.  Henry  Guisbruugh,  Yorkshire,  ati:ior,  :  , STYLE=superscript  !aef  `2,  P15_TB00019 _  li't  AM  CH  1.1  •  •••••••••••-••..  OINIMIWZMINF  VIE  N  .  ATIONA  Li  KEtiiNTER.  dimilimer  . STYLE=superscript  ..._.m..  ar  adromi...aaallp  7-.....5.~11%.  175  .......  - STYLE=superscript  ........................0ni55aa5m5er5era55am..  -- STYLE=superscript  -  the  Hungarian  insurrection,  and  the  numerous  sveii-sresse:  Lltd,  as  the  seiller  O  ffi  cers  in  the  Bay  had  not  officiaily  altered  •  ised  militia.  We  still  adhere  to  ous  former  oration  !Alt.  N  !  to  the  force  which  France  has  in  this  moment  at  lis:  dis-  posal  ;  tied,  tinder  all  these  circumstances,  we  hail  this  new  war,  as  offering  a  yes  of  Austria.  to  su  sy  lair  c'  '  hawse  of  success  on  tin;  eael  irassatirunleMsamanormorrsolto  TUES/0  4r  a  LOXDO  A'  GAZISTTE.  BANKRUPTS.  Esther  Rayner  and  John  Medley,  Newport,  corn-dealers.  assistance  to  occupying  a  surrendering:  from  yonr  Lordship,  to  give  every  possible  the  Spaniards,  1  thought  this  a  s•ood  opportunity,  bY  post  on  which  the  acknon  !edged  safety  of  the  cita-  accordingly  1  threw  myself  into  it,  with  fifty  is  :ilea  made  I  need  not  detail  to  your  Lordship,  su  ffi  ce  it  to  say,  that,  about  one  thousand  bats,  besides  barrels  and  pallisadoen  t%  ho  :assaulted  reender  March  21,  at  three;  22,  at  eleven,  mid  April  18,  at  stormin  g  two,  at  the  Bugle  Inn,  Newport.  Attorney,  Mr.  Worsley,  Newport.  John  Scott,  Gumecester,  Huntingdon,  blacksmith,  April  4,  5  and  18,  at  eleven,  at  the  Fountain  Inn,  Huntingdon.  Attornies,  Messrs.  Maule  and  Sweetings,  Huntingdon.  Hannah  Rees,  Neath,  Glamorg  an,  mercer,  March  24,  25,  and  April  18,  at  eleven,  at  .the  dash  Inn,  Swansea.  Attornies,  -  Messrs.  Bleasdale,  Alexander  and  Holme,  New  Inn  ;  Messrs.  Davies  and  Berrington,  Swansea  ,  William  Burt,  Coly  ton,  Devon,  money-scrivener,  March  16,  the  orders  1.  received  del  depended,  to  rereler  them  eteetual  service.  Tins  garrison  then  coasisted  or  about  eighty  Spain:suds,  and  were  on  the  point  of  seamen  and  thirty  marines  of  the  Itnnericuse.  The  arran  , STYLE=superscript  e-  -n  ,  supplied  the  place  of  walls  and  ditches  ;  and  that  the  enemy,  Ited  the  castle  on  the  20th  with  a  thousand  picked  men,  were  repelsed,  with  the  less  of  their  Commandiess  Officer,  equipa.se,  and  all  who  attempted  to  mount  the  breach.  Then  follows  Isis  Lordships  commendat  ions  of  the  officers  and  inerrdistinsoished  themselves.  Laid  Cochrane  afterwards  e  continues,  the  Citadel  of  Rosas  capitulated  at  twelve  o'clock  this  day.  Seeing,  my  Lord,  further  resistance  in  the  castle  of  useless  and  impracticable  against  the  whole  army,  the  Trinidad STYLE=superscript  attention  of  which  had  natually  turned  to  its  reduction,  after  ' STYLE=superscript  wring  the  trains  for  the  Magizines,  we  embarked  in  the  boats  of  the  Magnificent  ,  exploding  1111  lerieuse  and  Fame.  I  I  1  have  the  honour  to  be,  &amp;c.  •  COCH  RA  NE.  .  I  ,  1  0  .  at  three,  21,  and  April  18,  at  eleven,  at  the  Dolphin  inn,  Coly-  List  of  killed  and  wounded,  between  the  23d  November  and  Mb  ton.  Attornies,  Mr.  Sampson,  Coly  ton  ;  Mr.  Warry,  New  December  1808.  lots.  John  Lloyd,  John  Hitchins,  and  William  Fawkes,  marines,  James  Manning,  Bristol,  grocer,  March  17,  18,  and  April  18,  killed  ;  four  seamen  and  three  marines  wounded.  l  at  twelve,  at  the  White  Lion  lon,  Broad-street,  Bristol.  At-  Spaniards  of  the  Regiment  of  Ultonia.-Two  killed  and  tiro  tnrnies,  Mr.  Franks,  Hart-street,  wounded,  art-street,  Bloomsbury-square;  and  Messrs.  Leman,  Bristol.  ...........-.  Admiralty  Office,  March  11,  1809.  April  17,  at  two,  and  IS;  at  twelve  ,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Rear  Admiral  Stopford  to  the  Hon.  W.  W.  Pole  , STYLE=superscript  dated  Cesar,  Sw  cet,  Furnival's  Inn  -court,  Holborn.  at  anchor,  March  2,  1809,  Chassiron  Light-House  S.E.  ts  8.  Michael  Matthews,  Bath,  grocer  ,  March  11,  27,  and  April  ,  11 STYLE=superscript  miles  , STYLE=superscript  Baleine  Light-House  N.  E.  4  miles.  Wind  North.  IS,  at  eleven,  at  the  Greyhound,  Bath.  Attornies,  Mr.  Ed-  The  enemy's  ships  remain  at  Isle  d'  Ai  x.  On  the  28th  I  close-  is  mends,.  Exchequer  Office  of  Pleas,  Lincoln's  Inn;  and  Mr.  Mil-  Iv  reconnoitered  them  in  the  Cesar,  and  only  counted  ten  sail  of  ler,  Bath.  the  line,  four  frigates,  and  the  Calcutta.  The  eleventh  ship  of  .  Archibald  AV  Bride,  Liverpool,  perfumer,  March  17,  18.  and  the  line  was  observed  on  her  beam  ends,  with  all  her  masts  gone,  April  18,  at  eleven,  at  the  Globe  Tavern,  John-street,  Liver-  and  apparently  bilged.  She  grounded  upon  the  shoal  called  Les  .  pool.  Attornies,  Mr.  Windle,  John-street,  Bedford-row  ;  and  Pallas  within  L'lsle  d'Aix  ;  aud  i=  the  same  ship  mentioned  in  I'  blessrs.  Griffith  and  Mik,  Lower  Castle-street,  Liverpool.  .my  letter  of  the  27th  ult.  supposed  by  Capt.  Seymour  to  have  '  William  Lamb,  .Dudley,  Worcester,  victualler,  March  21).,  21,  been  a  frigate.  From  many  ciruinstances  I.  apprehend  this  ship  and  April  18,  at  eleven,  at  the  Dog  Inn,  Spiceall..streci,  lair-  is  the  Warsaw,  a  new  80.  There  are  two  Rear-Admirals'  Hags  .1  •  m  m  ingha.  Attornies,  Mr.  Gabel',  Lincoln's  Inn  ;  and  Mr.  and  a  broad  pendant  at  the  main.  One  R  e STYLE=superscript  ar  - STYLE=superscript  Adm  i STYLE=superscript  ral  is STYLE=superscript  o  n STYLE=superscript  II STYLE=superscript  Parker,  Birmingham.  board  the.3-decker.  .  •  Thomas  Crane,  Preston,  ironmonger,  April  7,  8 STYLE=superscript  ,  and  18, STYLE=superscript  et  The  enemy's  frigates  remain  at  the  Sables  d'Olonne.  One  of  '.  one,  at  the  Star  and  Garter  Tavern,  Paradise-street,  Liverpool.  them  is  abandoned  by  th  e  crew,  and  bilged  upon  the  beach;  i  Attorney.  Mr.  Avison,  Ilanover-street,  Liverpool.  another  is  hauled  up  close  to  .the  opening  of  a  small  inlet,  hut  Henry  Martin,  Wallingford,  Berks,  linen-draper,  March  11,  sgiounding  every  tide;  and  the  third  is  in  the  same  situation,  IS,  and  April  18,  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  Attornies,  Messrs.  but  not  quite  so  near  thelnkt.  These  two  last  appear  to  bat  Bourdillon  and  Hewitt,  Little  Friday-street.  .  .  ..  at  high  water,  but  are  on  their  beam-ends  at  love  water;  a  John  Scha  ff  er,  London-road,  Surrey,  floor-cloth-manufacturer,  western  swell,  which  has  set  in,  will  completely  destroy  theta.  Starch  11,  21,  and  April  18,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall.  'Attorney,  .  The  loss  of  a  French  line  (snaffle  ship  is  confirmed  by  the  li  . STYLE=superscript  .  Godmond,  New  Bridge-street.  CERT  IFI  cATEs-M  A  RCH  28.  Bates,  Brereton,  Staffordshire,  grocer.  Renton,  * STYLE=superscript  Gl  ' STYLE=superscript  eue  . STYLE=superscript  e  ' STYLE=superscript  s  ' STYLE=superscript  ter  . STYLE=superscript  -  terrace,  Stepney,  master-mariner.  -Brown,  King-street,  Blooms-  SATURDAY'S  LO.V.DON  GAZETTE.  •  Lord  Cochrane  Cochrane  to  Lord  Collitigweod.  •  MY  LOR  D  )  Imperieuse,  Bay  of  Rosas,  December  5,  1808.  ...m  ,.  masters  or  three  doggers  which  came  out  of  the  Charante,  and  .  were  boarded  in  the  night.  by  our  frigates,  but  they  did  not  know  her  name.  ._.........  ••  .  Stephen  Eccles,  Cannon-street  Road,  - STYLE=superscript  St.  George's  in  the  East,  mason;•from  March  18  to  April  18,  at  eleven,  at  Gnild  hall.  William  Aspland  Kensington,  cheesemonger,  from  March  11  to  April  IS,  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  .  Robe  rt  Raimbold,  Burr-street,  Wapping,  merchant,  March  Hi,  •  •-  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  BANKRUPTCY  SUPERSEDED.  The  fortress  of  Rotas  being  attacked  by  an  army  of  Italians  ,  Benjamin  Lancaster,  Scarborough,  ship-owner.  tn  the  service  of  France,  in  pursuance  of  discretionary  orders  that  your  Lordship  had  given  me,  to  assist  the  Spaniards  where-  PANKRUPTS.  I'l  ! STYLE=superscript  ilc  ;i•'  • STYLE=superscript  .:  '•  A  :  .  6  .  ,  II  .  i  '  1 STYLE=superscript  .  il  '  I  •  '  1  I  William  Garnham  Bromley,  and  Robert  Smith,  Bishopsgate-  '  ,  s  ever  it  could  be  done  with  the  most  effect,  I  hastened  here.  street,  auctioneers,  to  surrender  Marc  h  11,  - STYLE=superscript  :fi,  and  April  22,  at  ..1  The  Citadel,  on  the  22d  ult.  was  a  l  rea  d  y  half  invested,  and  the  H  ea  ;;1  1 STYLE=superscript  °  ten,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Adams,  Old  Jewry.  enemy  making  his  approaches  towards  the  south  w  est STYLE=superscript  ba  stion, STYLE=superscript  mrs  Hilliar,  Haymarket,  umbre  l  la  -aker,  March  18,  25  1  ,  1  : STYLE=superscript  which  your  Lordship  knows  was  blown  down  last  war  by  the  `x-  .  and  April  22,  at  twelve,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Bitgby,  plosion  of  a  magazine,  and  tumbled  into  the  ditc  h STYLE=superscript  ;  a STYLE=superscript  f  ew STYLE=superscript  i  thin STYLE=superscript  !  Symond's  Inn,  Chancerv-lane.  I  planks  and  dry  stones  had  been  put  up  by  the  Spanish  engineers,  I  „  -  I.  linnets  Martin,  'Birmingham,  cordwainer,  April  3,4,  at  perhaps  to  hide  the  defect  ;  all  things  were  in  a  moat  deplorable  ;  twelve,  sad  22,  at  elev;ai,  at  the  White  Hart  Inn,  'Birmingham.  state,  both  without  and  within,  even  measures  for  their  powder,  A!larnies,  Mess's.  Basters  and  Martin,  Furnival's  Inn,  London  ;  end  saws  for  their  fuses  were  not  to  be  had-hats  and  axes  '  awl  Dlr.  Webb,  Birmingham.  .  -  !•  .  ,  .  supplied  their  place.  The  castle  of  Trinidad,  situated  on  an  John  Charles,  rie!;:tre,  Moemouthshire,  thither  denier,  March  .  ,  eminence  but  commanded  by  heights,  was  also  invested  ;  three  2,9,  V.,  and  April  22,  at  twelve,  at  the  Beau  foi  i  Arms,  Rnsland,  .  twenty-four-pounders  battered  in  breach,  to  which  a  fourth  was  \lonniontlishire.  •  A  ttornies  Mr.  Harris,  ill.l;ii:l;oitii  ;  and  Mr.  -  afterwards  added,  and  a  passage  through  the  wall  to  the  lower  Williams  Red  Lion-smiare.  ,  .  bomb-proof  beieg  nearly  effected,  on  the  2.1  d  the  marines  of  the  henry  Mills,  Guisbrutigh,  Yorkshire,  eti:isr,  :  , STYLE=superscript  !atif  is  rZ2,  sl'S„  Fame  were  w  ithd  raw  n  .•  ..  F  I  w  cut  to  examine  the  state  of  th  e  castle,  i  ),'•‘.  .  P15_TB00020"
