text
"THE  NATIONAL  REpmfrE-R-4.  APRIL  23.  very  eye  that  descends  with  grief  into  the  grave,  is  raised  , STYLE=superscript  at  the  same  ,time,•with  joy  to  the  skies.•  it  is  not  tb'  evcrlastin;•farewell,  but  the  temporary  parting,.of  those  who  live  by  faith.  Confident  of  the  resurrection  to  eternal  these  look  forward,  with  ihdiscrihable  bliss,  to  the  society  which  will  consist  of  the  spirits  of  just  men  made  perfect.  While  we  fulfill  the  mournful  ceremony  of  committing  the  body  to  the  ground,  we  enjoy  the  glo.  riot's  privilege  of  commending•  the  spirit  to  him  ho  gave  it.  Dr.  Andrewes  failed  to  realize  my  anticipations  on  this  occasion.  His  present  discourse  was  informing  and  discri discriminating,  minating, discriminating,  hut  it  wanted  the  impres  , STYLE=superscript  iveness  of  eloquenco.  lie  appealed  to  the  head,  but  he  never  agitated  the  heart.  There  was  one  part  of  his  discourse,  however,  which  00.41  it  to  be  pointed  out,  and  to  which  praise  is  most  jristf;  due.  Adverting  to  fashionable  funeraN,  he  eneri..st  ically  remon remonstrated  strated remonstrated  against  the  practice,  still  so  prevalent  in  high  life,  of  persons  celebrating  the  obsequies  of  their  relations  as  it  were  by  proxy  ;  so  that  servants,  in  this  last  sad  rite,  be become  come become  the  substitutes  of  masters,  and  funerals  are  literally  performed.  Nothing  can  be  more  revolting  than  thi4  practice.  It  is  insult  to  the  deceased,  it  is  scandal  to  the  living.  Abraham  himself  buried  Sarah  ;  and  the  principal  personages  of  Egypt  consentancously  accompanied  Joseph  to  the  burial  of  Jacob.  It  was  over  a  grave  that  Jesus  wept.  Humanity  is  to  be  acquired  at  the  bed  of  sickness,  and  piety  at  the  interment  of  the  dead.  What  is  the  tomb,  to  those  who  can  truly  ask,  agreeably  to  The  order  for  the  Burial  of  the  Dead,'  the  speedy  accomplishment  of  the  number  of  the  and  who  feel  heartily  thankful,  at  the  same  time.  that  the  souls  of  them  they  love  are  delivered  from  the  burden  of  the  and  from  the  misnies  of  this  sinful  world  Of  our  future  knowledge  of  each  other,  what  may  he  termed  individual  recognition  beyond  the  grave,  of  this  hope,  to  which  reason  aspires  and  which  revelation  coun countenances,  tenances, countenances,  Dr.  Andrews  did  not  speak.  Scarcely  did  he  venture  on  the  confines  of  that  state  where  the  souls  of  them  that  depart  .exist  in  joy  and  felicity  It  was  rather  trivial  in  him,  after  this  neglect,  to  censure  those  simple  creatures,  who,  instead  of  attending  to  the  solemnities  of  burial,  are  drawn  thither  by  admiring  the  proud  pall,  or  seen  noticing  the  curious  coffin.  Knowing  the  important  impressions  often  made  both  on  the  heart  and  mind  by  the  burial  of  the  dead,  religiously  celebrated,  1  greatly  regret  the  too  frequent  neglect  of  carrying  the  corps:  into  the  church  ;  where  the  sacredness  of  the  place,  and  the  portion  of  divine  scripture  usually  read,  most  fitly  prepare  the  mourners  for  the  final  solem solemnity  nity solemnity  of  committit2;  the  bony  of  the  deceased  to  the  grave.  Parsimony  is  the  last  feeling  that  should  be  con-  I  stilted  in  this  particular  ;  and  where  poverty  really  operates  to  the  exclusion  of  piety,  well  would  it  become  the  minister  of  •relig,rion,  remembering  to  Whom  he  is  responsible,  to  dispense,  in  some  shape,  with  the  church  fees  otherwise  to  he  expected.  Something  should  be  done  on  this  subject.  Difficult  it  may  be,  but  let  us  trust  that  it  is  not  impossible,  to  remedy  the  evil  which  I  have  just  been  describing.  .4  pril  2,  1809.  ONgsnics."
