text
"MARCH  19.  General  Gust;  71  said,  with  feelings  of  gratitude  to towards  wards towards  his  Royal  Highness  for  the  many  marks  of  personal  fa favour  vour favour  he  eaperieuced  of  him,  it.  was  ant  . STYLE=superscript  without  the  most  heart heartfelt  felt heartfelt  regret  he  was  obliged  to  ;Ice  a  -,nste  of  censure  on  that  con conduct,  duct, conduct,  to  which,  otherwise,  he  could  bear  ample  testimony  of  the  most  merttornaus  sc  t  vice  to  the  army  and  the  country.  But.  on  aqtlest  ion  Itke  this,  every  feeling  of  private  consideration  mu  st STYLE=superscript  yield  to  public  duty,  and  he  should  conceive  himself  unworthy  of  a  seat  in  that  house,  if  he  was  influenced  by  any  other  motive  than  a  faithful  discharge  of  his  duty.  After  a  most  careful  ierusal  of  all  the  testimony  of  the  witnesses,  and  a  close  examination  of  the  various  documents  on  the  table,  the  re re-6111t  6111t re-6111t  of  that  consideration  has  been,  that  he  was  of  opinion  that  his  Royal  Highness's  conduct  had  been  extremely  culpable.—  Heavy  guilt  rested  upon  him,  and  until  that  guilt  was  disproved.  he  could  not  say  that  the  Commander  in  Chief  could  hold  that  situation  any  longer  with  comfort  to  himself,  or  satisfaction  to  the  public.  The  CHANCELLOR  of  the  Exerttountt  then  rose  for  the  pnrpose  of  moving  his  resolutinn  expressive  of  the  opinion  of  the  guilt  or  innocence  of  the  Duke  of  York.  The  evi evidence  dence evidence  atforded  no  ground  whatever  for  thinking  his  Royal  High Highness  ness Highness  guilty  of  corruption  in  the  execution  of  his  duty  ;  nor  had  there  been  any  ground  made  out  for  attributing  to  him  a  connivance  at  corruption.  He  certainly  was  not  prepared  in  framing  his  resolutions  to  meet  the  particular  views  of  each  Gentleman  respectively  on  this  question.  Indeed  he  did  not  conceive  it  consistent  with  what  was  due  to  the  Duke  of  York,  and  the  duty  lie  imposed  upon  himwlf,  to  couch  a  resolution  which  was  to  decide  upon  his  guil  t  or  innocence,  of  the  charges  attributed  to  him  in  general  or  vague  terms  ;  his  object  was  to  bring  the  house  tti  a  decisive  conclusion  Upon  this  important  branch  of  the  quest  ion,  and  leave  such  other  remaining  grounds  of  complaint  as  Gentlemen  might  think  proper  to  ground  a  proceed proceedlug  lug proceedlug  upon  for  seine  other  course  of  deck,lon.  With  respect  to  inno innocent  cent innocent  connivance,  which  a  right  hon.  OPntleman  (Mr.  W  indham)  attributed  to  the  Duke  in  the  course  of  the  debate  on  a  former  night,  namely,  that  kind  of  connivance,  on  his  part,  which  did  not  constitute  that  degree  of  knowledge  of  improper  traffic  in  Military  Promotions  which  could  be  called  criminal  connivance.  lie  would  now  only  say  a  few  words  with  respect  to  the  present  mode  of  proceeding  by  Resolution  and  Address.  Ile  had  before  stated,  and  he  would  again  repeat  it,  that  his  principal  object  in  proceeding  by  Restitution,  was  in  order  to  determine  whether  there  was  ground  for  proceeding  to  trial.  if  the  Duke  of  York  should  he  Anoka  guilty  of  corruption,  or  of  grave  suspicion  of  corruption  or  connivance,  then  upon  a  Resolution  to  that  effect  being  entered  upon  the  Journals  as  a  distinct  opinion,  the  house  might  address  his  Majest)  for  a  dismissal  of  the  Duke,  or  for  an  impeachment  before  his  .Peers.  This  then.  he  conceived  to  he  the  most  regular  course  that  could  have  been  pursued,  to  avoid  all  the  inconvenience  of  Address  in  the  first  instanced  The  right  hon.  Gentleman  concluded  by  moving  the  following  Reso 'Resolution—'  That  it  is  the  opinion  of  the  house,  after  the  fullest  in investigation  vestigation investigation  of  all  the  evidence  laid  before  them  by  the  Com Committee  mittee Committee  of  the  whole  house,  appointed  to  investigate  the  conduct  of  the  Duke  of  York,  that  the  said  evidence  affords  no  grounds  for  charging  his  Royal  llighness,  in  the  execution  of  tis  official  duties,  with  the  personal  corruption  alleged  against  him,  or  of  any  connivance  of  the  practices  therein  Mr.  1.1'11'1.17,T0  N  thought  that  the  Motion  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  was  founded  on  an  imaginary  right,  and  that  he  ought  not  to  enforce  it.  That  to  decide  whether  the  Duke  was  guilty  or  not,  were  to  sentence,  instead  of  merely  pre preparing  paring preparing  the  way  fur  it.  Any  man  who  took  an  impartial  view  of  tie  evidence  which  had  been  unfolded  during  the  frequent  e  afn  t tnat  nat tnat  ions  that  had  taken  think  the  charges  had  taco  fully  substantiated.  Toe).  were  not  proved  by  the  forre  pr  w wpm:cots,  pm:cots, wpm:cots,  the  thunders  of  eloquence  alone,  but  by  a  milli  i  t  tlieits  of  corroborated  proofs.  Amongst  the  latter  was  that  o  loch  ranked  next  to  the  confession  of  the  accused,  his  hautl-wrtiog.  The  honourable  Member  then  alluded  to  the  regulations  of  toe  Year  16SO,  when  it  was  ordered  that  no  Member  of  the  House  of  Commons  should  accept  any  otlice,  or  even  the  promise  of  a  place,  v.  ithant  vacating  his  seat.  He  certainly  would  be  sorry  were  not  Ministers  allowed  to  keep  their  seats  in  the  goose,  in  order  to  be  able  ta  explain  the  motives  of  their  conduct,  and  answer  for  its  con.e  qu  euces.  tut  he  could  not  r  efrain STYLE=superscript  from STYLE=superscript  thinking  that  imparti  t  y  would  be  more  likely  to  tix  tic  abode  in  Saint  Stephen's  Chapel,  wire  none  but  placeless  .  Members  there.  lie  had  to  thank  an  ho  n. STYLE=superscript  member STYLE=superscript  (11r. STYLE=superscript  Canning)  whom  he  did  not  perceive  in  the  hous?,  for  a  delicate  allusion  to  an  anecdote  relating  to  his  great  gsandfather.  He  however  thought  It  unfair  in  that  Gentlemau  to  wage  war  With  weapons,  which  lBi  were  certainly  unequal,  since  he  had  looked  over  the  Line-  of  history,  and  also  tradition,  in  vain,  for  an  account  of  his  an ancestors,  cestors, ancestors,  and  their  deeds.  The  co  u  ntry  hung  with  x  swfience  on  the  issue  of  this  important  business.  The  in interest  terest interest  which  it  had  excited,  pervaded  every  chess;  it  formed  the  theme  of  every  conversation.  And  /  should  so  many  proofs  have  been  exposed,  so  many  examinations  hav‘.•  taken  place,  unit  so  many  debates  called  forth  the  eloquence  of  Parliament  for  to  other  purpose  but  to  produce  a  shameful  vote  of  entire  acquittal;  how  low  would  he  the  humiliation  of  the  house  !  how  omnious  would  he  its  degradation  in  the  public  estima estimation!  tion! estimation!  If  the  decision,  and  be  apprehended  much  it  would  he  Fo  terminated  in  the  acquittal  of  the  accused,  what  security  does  there  exist  for  us  ?  The  lion.  Member  hoped  better  of  the  wisdom  of  t  h  e  house,  and  sincerely  wished  it  might  prove,  by  the  vote  it  would  give,  that  it  imitated  the  conduct  of  heaven,  which  is  no  respecter  of  person.  Sir  Too  As  Tu  wro  also  regretted  being  compelled  to  give  a  vote  on  the  question  of  guilty  or  not  guilty  of  personal  cor corruption,  ruption, corruption,  or  spotless  innocence.  No  alternative  now  remained.  Those  who  might  have  thought  him  culpable,  merely  because  he  bad  not  checked  the  hands  of  guilt.  without  participating  in  its  advantages,  and  who  would  have  voted  for  milder  proceedings,  were  now  obliged  to  declare  him  guilty  of  the  whole  of  the  charges,  or  acquit  him  of  every  accusation  laid  against  him,  against  their  own  convictiou,  and  their  own  coo  , STYLE=superscript  icieuce.  I  t  he  were  acquitted,  the  nation  would  say  that  Parliament  had  done  nothing  - STYLE=superscript  ,  and  he  even  now  much  feared  that  they  would  say  they theyintended  intended theyintended  to  do  nothing.  Before  Cod  and  his  country,  he  declared  it  was  his  firm  opinion,  that  the  Commander  in  Chief  knew  what  corrupt  practices  vvere  c;.i.rried  on  t  having  that  conviction  impressed  on  his  mind,  he  would  be  an  infamous  dastard  if  he  shrunk  from  the  acknowlolg.  ,, STYLE=superscript  ent  of  it.  Let  any  one  who  should  do  so  repair  to  his  constituents,  inform  them  how  he  bad  voted,  and  ask  them  whether  he  had  done  his  duty  ?  He  was  not,  however,  willing  to  degrade  any  man.  even  in  imagination,  for  he  hoped  it  w  mild  never  he  realized  of  any  member  that  he  should  be  capable  of  such  corrupt  servility.  Mr.  DICKIN  SO  N  supported  Sir  Thomas  Turton  s  Ammend Ammendmerit.  merit. Ammendmerit.  Mr.  Fut,r,ra  defended  the  Duke  of  York,  and  thought  him  one  of  the  ,finest  Generats  England  ever  had.  lle  would  net  give  his  vole  to  punish  a  person  on  suspicion.  lie  was  not  afraid  aids  Constituents.  —If  there  %vas  a  di:-solution  of  Parlia Parliament,  ment, Parliament,  let  them  try  him  again  ia  the  shabby  manlier  they  had  done,  Ile  finished  by  ex  pre.sing  his  love  for  his  Country,  and  If  there  is  any  man  tt  ho  does  not  like  England,  damn  him—let  him  leave  it  !  Lord  Mortre'ru  expressed  his  conviution,  that  the  charge  of  corruption  and  connivance  was  not  so  clearly  and  satisfactorily  proved  as  to  enable  him  to  pronounce  the  Duke  of  York.  guilty.  (Bear!  hea  , STYLE=superscript  !  font  the  illinisterial  Benches!  )  After  a  few  words  from  tlise  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  in  explanation,  Mr.  .Sti  inner,  Mr.  Wil  he  rforce.  and  Lord  1!  enry  Petty,  to  whom  the  Chaucellor  of  tit:.  Exchequer  replied,  a  cot:-  versation  took  place  between  Mr.  Whitbread,  Sir  J.  Pultenry,  Sir  Thomas  Tullio',  Mr.  Yorke,  atria  Mr.  Canuimug,  w  Iwo  the  question  was  vociferous!  y  called  for,  and  the  house  divided;  first,  on  Sir  Thomas  Turton's  Amendment,  Ayes,  —N  oes,  :lA—Ntajorit  v,  199.  The  next  division  was  on  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer's  second  Resolution,  A  vev,(i7S—Noes,  hl6—Majority  for  the  Duke  of  York  S.  Adjourned  at  live  o'Clock.  The  Caledonia,  Tonnant,  r;o:is,  and  Bellow',  with  several  frigates  and  sloops,  under  toe  e  ammand  of  Lord  Gambier,  arrived  ofr  .  Roche  fort  on  the  7th.  There  is  no  chance  of  getting  otr  the  line  of  hat:!e  ship  which  ISII4  driven  on  shore.  Our  .of  the  friza  .  tes  ih  .t  went  on  shore  '  has,got  oti,  and  is  rrtitting.  L'riatienne,  La  Calypso,  and  Le  Terrence  French  frigates,  are  v  holiy  destroyed.  At  a  Court  cf  Common  (unlit  3  held  on  Thursday,  the  Court  proceeded  to  co  , STYLE=superscript  isider  a  report  trop  the  Committee  of  City  Lands  relative  to  Smithfield  Market,  and  ordered  the  Committee  to  proceed  in  Parliament  to  obtain  an  Act  for  its  removal  to  the  Spa-Field,  t'eloaging  to  Lord  No  , STYLE=superscript  th thampton,  ampton, thampton,  or  to  the  Field  adjoin:Lig  13:tpig.4o.  Wells,  beloag beloaging  ing beloaging  to  Lord  Caithorp,  or  some  Other  1.14:e  necessary  tor  making  a  suitable  and  commodious  Market,  with  instrue.  lions  to  the  Cointnii.fre  to  obtain  the  City's  rights  and  pri priviieges  viieges priviieges  to  be  extended  to  and  over  the  same.  I  P11_TB00008 P11_TB00009 .  .  MARCH  19.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER  .187  -  •  .  .  .  .  ...  ________  •  -  i  cent:qui  FE/I  GU  St:  N  Said,  with  feelings  of  gratitude  to-  were  certainly  unequal,  since  he  had  looked  over  the  poses  of  wards  his  llosal  Ifinhness  for  the  many  marks  o  f  pe  rs  onas  e  a  _  history,  and  also  tradition,  in  vain,  for  an  ;aroma  of  h;s  an-  .  .  .  .  ,  your  he  experienced  of  him,  it.  was  not  without  the  m  o  st  heart-  cestors,  and  their  deeds.  The  country  haws  with  mixious  )!i  felt  regret  he  was  obliged  to  ;Ice  t  note  of  censure  on  that  con-  !.tvtience  on  the  issue  of  this  important  business:.  'Pie  in-  duct,  to  which,  otherwise,  he  could  bear  ample  testimony  o  f  the  terest  which  it  had  excited,  pervaded  every  chess;  it  formed  •  •  most  meritorious  sir  vise  to  the  army'  and  the  country.  But.  o  n  the  theme  of  every  conversation.  And/should  so  many  proofs  a  qoestion  like  this,  every  feeling  of  priv;sie  consideration  most  have  been  exposed,  so  many  examinat  ions STYLE=superscript  have  taken  pl  a  ce,  yield  to  public  duty  , STYLE=superscript  and  he  should  conce  ive STYLE=superscript  himself STYLE=superscript  unworthy  tool  so  many  debates  called  forth  the  eloquence  of  Palliallitla  .  .  of  a  seat  in  that  house,  it  he  was  influenced  by  any  other  for  co  other  purpose  but  to  produce  a  shameful  viol?  of  entire  motive  than  a  Faithful  discharge  of  his  duty.  After  a  most  'acquittal;  how  low  would  he  the  humiliation  of  the  house  !  ,  •  careful  oerusal  of  all  the  testimony  of  the  witnesses,  and  a  how  omnious  would  be  its  degradation  in  the  public  estimis-  -1  l  -,...  close  examination  of  the  various  documents  on  the  table,  the  re-  fiat)!  .If  the  decision,  and  he  a STYLE=superscript  pp  rehended STYLE=superscript  much STYLE=superscript  it  would  full  of  that  consideration  has  been,  that  he  was  of  opinion  that  he  so  terminated  in  the  acquittal  of  the STYLE=superscript  accused, STYLE=superscript  what STYLE=superscript  security STYLE=superscript  his  Royal  Highness's  conduct  had  been  ex  tremel STYLE=superscript  y  culpable.—  does  there  exist  for  us  ?  The  Hon.  Member  hoped  better  of  the  •  Heavy  guilt  rested  upon  him,  and  until  that  guilt  teas  disproved.  wisdom  of  the  house,  and  sincerely  ss  kited  it  might  prove,  by  the  i:.  he  could  not  say  that  the  Commander  in  Chief  could  load  th  a  t  vole  it  would  give,  that  it  imitated  the  conduct  of  heaven,  which  situation  any  longer  with  comfort  to  himself,  or  satisfaction  to  is  n  o STYLE=superscript  resp  ecter STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  p  erson?. STYLE=superscript  the  public.  Sir  Too  NI  A  s  Tu  RTO  N  also  regretted  being  compelled  to  give  The  CHANCELLOR  of  the  Exeritiountt  then  rose  for  the  •  a  vote  on  the  question  of  guilty  or  not  guilty  of  personal  row-  porpose  of  moving  his  resolutinn  expressive  of  the  opinion  ruption,  or  spotless  innocence.  No  alternative  now  remained.  i  t STYLE=superscript  s  ,  of  the  guilt  or  innocence  of  the  Duke  of  Y  ork STYLE=superscript  .  The STYLE=superscript  evi- STYLE=superscript  Those  who  might  have  thought  him  cuipanle,  merely  because  he  s  deuce  atforded  no  ground  whatever  for  thinking  his  Royal  'ILO-  bad  not  checked  the  hands  of  guilt.  without  participating  in  its  ness  guilty  of  corruption  in  the  execut  i STYLE=superscript  on  of  h  i STYLE=superscript  s  dut STYLE=superscript  y  ;  nor STYLE=superscript  had STYLE=superscript  advantages, STYLE=superscript  and STYLE=superscript  who STYLE=superscript  would STYLE=superscript  have STYLE=superscript  voted STYLE=superscript  for STYLE=superscript  milder STYLE=superscript  proceedings,  there  been  any  ground  made  out  for  attributing  to  him  a  were  now  obliged  to  declare  him  guilty  of  the  whole  of  the  ~  •  •  connivance  at  corruption.  He  certainly  was  not  prepared  in  charges,  or  acquit  him  of  every  accusation  laid  against  him,  s  against  their  own  conviction,  and  their  own  coliscieuce.  If  he  l  framing  his  resolutions  .  to  meet  the  particular  views  of  each  Gentleman  r  espectively  on  this  question.  Indeed  he  did  not  conceive  it  consistent  with  what  was  due  to  the  Duke  of  York,  and  the  duty  lie  imposed  upon  himself,  to  couch  a  resolution  which  was  to  decide  upon  his  guilt  or  innocence,  of  time  charges  attributed  to  him  in  ;Faecal  or  vague  terms  ;  his  object  was  to  bring  the  house  lei  a  decisive  conclusion  Upon  this  important  branch  of  the  quest  ion,  and  leave  such  other  remaining  grounds  of  were  acquitted,  the  nation  would  say  that  Parliament  had  done  nothing:,  and  he  even  now  much  feared  that  they  would  say  they  intended  to  do  nothing.  Before  God  and  his  country,  he  declared  it  was  his  fi  rm  opinion,  that  the  Commander  in  Chief  knew  what  corrupt  practices  were  corried  on  ;  having  that  conviction  impressed  on  his  mind,  he  would  be  an  infamous  dastard  if  he  shrunk  front  the  acknowholg.sent  of  it.  Let  complaint  as  Gentlemen  might  think  proper  to  ground  a  proceed_  any  one  who  should  do  so  repair  to  his  constituents,  inform  lug  upon  for  some  other  course  of  decision.  With  respect  to  inno-  cent  connivance.  which  a  right  hon.  Ginitleman  (Mr.  Windham)  attributed  to  the  Duke  in  the  course  of  the  debate  on  a  former  night,  namely,  that  kind  of  connivance,  on  his  part,  which  did  not  constitute  that  degree  of  knowledge  of  improper  traf  fi  c  in  Military  Promotions  which  could  lie  called  criminal  connivance.  He  would  now  only  say  a  few  words  with  respect  to  the  present  [node  - STYLE=superscript  of  proceedi  stated,  and  he  wot  there  was  grouted  i' STYLE=superscript  'ld  ao  proceeding  should  he  t  '  i  esol  Resolution  nod  Address.  Ile  had  before  •  ,sain  repeat  ution,  was  i  it,  that  his  principal  object  in  n  order  to  determine  whe  th  er  aft  for  proceeding  to  trial.  if  the  Duke  of  York  me  mod  guiltyof  •  •  corruption,  or  of  grave  suspicion  of  dm  c  4  o  e  r  in  rt  ,  t  z  p  e  t  i  i  i  i  t  i  e  n  re  t  b STYLE=superscript  ir  Y STYLE=superscript  ltn'r STYLE=superscript  connivance,  by STYLE=superscript  then  upon  a  Resolution  to  that  effect  mignit  d STYLE=superscript  u STYLE=superscript  impeachment  lion  the  Journals  as  a  distinct  opinion,  the  house  address  his  Alajest)  for  a  dismissal  of  the  Duke,  or  for  an  before  his  Peers.  This  then.  he  conceived  to  be  the  most  regular  course  that  could  have  been  pursued,  e  ;  1  exc  Mr.  Fut.r.ra  defended  the  Duke  of  York,  and  thought  him  his  V  kid  ell  Inert,  let  ie,  lit  t  ole  to  is  Const  them  .  finishe  Liu  itii  try  I  daiminff  If  t  ny  dalllil  him—let  hi  all  the  inconvenience  of  Address  in  the  first  instance.  The  (Hear!  ketv!  .  right  hon.  Gentleman  concluded  by  moving  the  following  Reso-  That  it  is  the  opinion  of  the  house,  after  the  fullest  in-  vestigation  of  all  the  evidence  laid  before  them  by  the  Coin-  tgniiiitt:.N.nniitr.LivicliceibiNtbdovNottlettili,wftt)tirdteadsksitrheTmhowinhzeoth,erruriti(embsadAddounneehiai:  duty  ?  He  was  not,  however,  willing  to  degrade  ans•  man.  even  in  imagination,  for  he  hoped  it  would  never  be  realized  of  aov  member  that  he  should  be  capable  of  such  corrupt  seta  ility.  one  of  the  finest  Generals  England  ever  had.  lie  would  not  i  e  ti  n  s  t  l  s  )  .—  a  person  on  suspicion.  Ile  was  not  If  kiln  ags  in  three  •  e  ss  d  by  ex  pi  here  is  toy  man  m  leave  it  !  us  as  a  di:-solution  of  P:trlia-  ia  the  shabby  manlier  th  ey  had  he  , STYLE=superscript  his  love  for  his  Country,  and  vs  ho  does  not  like  England,  Lord  Monrcza  expressed  his  convirtion,  that  the  charge  of  corruption  and  counivance  was  not  so  clearly  and  satisfactorily  to  avoid  proved  as  to  enable  him  to  pronounce  the  Duke  of  York  guilty.  f  ma  the  illinisterial  Benches!  )  After  a  few  words  from  tlise  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  in  explanation,  Mr.  Sitsmillter,  Alr.  Wilnerforre.  and  Lord  Henry  Petty,  to  whoop  the  Chancellor  of  tit:.  Exchequer  replied,  a  eon-  .  •  ,  s.  .  i  11‘  it..  4...,  '  ..  1  4  t  .  '  •1  •  il  .  44  i STYLE=superscript  l  ii  t  •  •  11.  •,  ..  ' STYLE=superscript  1  '  f  t STYLE=superscript  ~ STYLE=superscript  J  . STYLE=superscript  .  :4  : STYLE=superscript  4;  .  ..  ~  mittee  of  the  whole  house,  appointed  to  investigate  the  conduct  versation  took  pl,on  between  Ali.  N%  bolo  - STYLE=superscript  tad,  Sir  J.  Po  .  '  woe-  .l  t  ,  :  r STYLE=superscript  of  the  Duke  of  York,  that  the  said  evidence  atfords  no  grounds  Sir  'Flonnas  Z'  p STYLE=superscript  1 STYLE=superscript  Air,  Yorke,  ana  Mr.  C  i  anumg,  s%  hivn  the  .':'  for  chargiuss  his  Rosa!  Highness,  in  the  execution  of  ~IS  official  question  was  A STYLE=superscript  iry  c  ork STYLE=superscript  for,  and  the  house  divided  ;  Is  - STYLE=superscript  ditties,  with  the  personal  corruption  alleged  against  him,  or  of  first,  on  Sir  Thomas  Turton's  A  memlutent,  any  connivance  of  the  practices  therein  A  yes,  IYS  —N  oes,  :  - STYLE=superscript  t  aj  oil  tv,  199.  .s.  ,i.  The  next  division  was  on  the  Cluisicellor  of  the  Exchequer's  I  ...  '•  Mr.  leYrri.ETO  N  thought  that  the  )(lotion  of  the  Chancellor  r  , STYLE=superscript  st  .  toe,  of  the  Exchequer  Iva  founded  lot  i  s  nary  right,  and  that  ma STYLE=superscript  r  i STYLE=superscript  second  esolut  Ares,‘SlS—Noes,  'o6—Majority  for  the  Duke  of  York  S.  .'  ;  N  he  ought  not  to  enforce  it.  That  to  decide  whether  the  Duke,  •  -  a  i  ‘ STYLE=superscript  was  guilty  or  not,  were  to  sentences  instead  of  merely  pre-  Adjourned  at  Five  &amp;Clock.  1  ~..  /  paring  the  way  fur  it.  Any  man  who  took  an  impartial  view  of  .....................  s  io  .s  tiie  evidence  which  had  bee  n  unfolded  during  the  frequent  e  siosi-  The  Caledonia,  Tonnant,  Hies  ronts,  and  Bellow',  with  .  4 STYLE=superscript  1  11. STYLE=superscript  SI.  9  n:mt  ions  that  had  token  place  think  the  charges  hod  lola  se  ,  sterol  frivates  and  sloops,  wider  toto  command  of  Lo  t  it  e,  •  .  fully  substantiated.  'friey  were  not  proved  by  the  forst.  era  , STYLE=superscript  -  -  Gambier,  arrived  ofr  Rochefort  on  the  Ilh.  There  us  Illf  gninents,  the  th  unders  of  eloquence  alone,  but  by  a  mid;  i  ill  kit  v  .  .i  S  i  chance  of  , STYLE=superscript  rettinn•  •  oil'  the  line  of  hat:le  ship  which  ISII4  t,  !'  of  corroborated  proofs.  Amongst  the  latter  was  that  vs  Isist  amen  on  shore.  One  •of  th  e  fro,  -files  th  .t  went  on  shore  '  ranked  next  to  the  confession  of  the  accused,  his  Ittiutl-wrAileg.  is  ..  The  honourable  Member  then  alluded  to  the  regulat  items  of  toe  hassgot  , STYLE=superscript  on,  and  is  rvtittiqg.  Vitatientic,  La  Calypso,  and  •  Near  1630,  when  it  was  ordered  that  no  Member  of  the  House  Le  Terrence  French  frigates,  are  v  holly  destroyed.  4i  of  Commons  should  accept  any  otbce,  or  even  the  promise  of  a  At  a  Court  of  Common  I.  ount  3  held  on  Thurselay,  the  •  .  !place,  v  ithlot  vacating  his  seat.  Ile  certainly  would  he  sorry  1  1 STYLE=superscript  /  4  Court  proceeded  to  c0  , STYLE=superscript  ,5i0  , STYLE=superscript  .T  a  rep  ort  trout  the  Committee  i  I  ~:,,,,,  were  not  Ministers  allowed  to  keep  their  seats  in  the  house,  in  of  CON'  Lands  relative  to  Smithfield  Market,  and  ordered  o  ftl  7l  ,,  e  w  r  f.r  to  f,  t  r  e  able  to  espial,'  the  motives  of  their  conduct,  and  s  consequeu  thinking  that  imearni  di  in  Saint  Ste{  .es.  But  he  could  not  refrain  from  ,  it  s  ty  would  be  more  likely  to  fix  its  abode  ,hen's  Chapel.  were  none  but  placeless  Members  the  Committee  to  proceed  h.:  t  aroanient  to  ohtwn  an  Act  for  removal  to  the  Spa-Field,  heloagibg  to  Lord  No,th-  -•  .  .  ,is  {:I  •  •  •  aropton,  or  to  tilt,  t  i...  1.1  adjo.u.o.,  Bagssigze.  Wells  bele  . STYLE=superscript  o•  .  ,  al  t  ..'  in  to  Lord  Caitliotp,  or  some  other  I:l4ce  necessary  for  ii  1.  .....1.  '..1 STYLE=superscript  il  4,  , STYLE=superscript  I,  '''  ~,,k  there.  lie  had  to  thank  an  hon.  member  (Mr.  Canning)  whom  .  makiiqs  a  suAable  and  commodious  Market,  vs  ith  instruc.  he  did  not  perceive  in  the  twos?,  for  a  delicate  allusion  to  an  am_  ct  •  •  lote  relating  to  his  gre:it  gFandfatlier.  He  however  thouebt  lions  to  the  Conuni;.l.ce  to  obtain  the  City's  rights  and  pri-  .  t  .  .,:  ,..;,i,.  1  $t  unfair  iO  that  Gentleinau  to  wage  war  with  weapons,  which  ...  viieges  to  be  extended  to  crud  o‘er  the  saute.  •  .  .  i.;  ~•  .  ~,,v  ,  - STYLE=superscript  ;  01!  4x'  ,  I  It'  f'  •  11  :  'tW  ''  ••  7 STYLE=superscript  '  '  I  ' STYLE=superscript  •  H STYLE=superscript  •"
