text
"I  just  received  your  note,  Ni,,4.  I  recollect  nothing  about  it---Q.  Can  you  not  conjec conjecture  ture conjecture  to  what  it  alludes  ?  A.  No,  I  cannot.  Captain  San4ion  must  have  taken  it  out  of  my  house  without  my  permission  if  it  ever  was  there,  The  CHANCELLOR  of  the  Excti  EQUER  observed,  that  al al.  . al.  .  though  Captain  Sandon's  offence  hail  been  -considerably  miti mitigated  gated mitigated  by  the  production  of  the  paper,  let  it  was  absolutely  necessary  that  he  Should  undergo  some  patishment  for  the  gross  prevarication  of  which  he  had  been  guilty.  Ile  therefote  moved  that  Captain  Huxley  Sandon  be  committed  to  Newgate,  and  that  the  Speaker  do  issue  his  warrant  accordingly;  which  was  agreed  to  ram.  con.  Adjourned.  Friday,  February  17.  EMBEZZLEMENT.  Sir  JOHN  NEWPORT  rose  to  move  for  leave  to  bring  in  a  Bill  for  making  the  Embezzlement  of  Public  Money  a  Felony,  without  bedetit  of  Clergy.  The  object  of  this  Bill  extends  the  operations  of  the  old  act  to  persons  high  in  office,  where  su superior  perior superior  situations  and  emoluments  aggravated  the  nature  of  their  eritne,  Leave  was  given  to  bring  lathe  Bill.  DUKE  OF  YORK.  Colonel  Gordon  examined  by  the  CH  A  NCELLOR  of  the  Ex-  CHEQUER.--Q.  Are  you  acquainted  with  the  hand-writing  of  the  Duke  of  York?  A.  Yes,  perfectly.—Q.  Examine  those  notes  (a  number  of  letters  being;  given  to  him),  and  state  if  they  are  of  the  Duke's  writing?  A.  They  very  nearly,  indeed  almwt  exactly,  resemble  his  hand-writing,  but  I  cannot  positively  say  that  they  are.  General  Itrownrig  called.—Q.  Are  you  acquainted  with  the  Duke  of  York's  hand-writing?  A.  Yes.—Q.  Look  at  those  notes  (letters  put  into  his  hands).  A.  They  are  certainly  very  like,  and  I  should  think  they  are  his  hand,  with  the  exception  of  the  address,  which,  on  some  of  these  letters,  is  not  in  his  hand-writing,.—Q.  Would  you  obey  any  order  given  in  this  hand-writing  ?  A.  I  think  1  should,  the  resemblance  .  being  so  strong,  and  if  I.  had  no  cause  of  suspicion  to  the  contrary.  Mr.  Dickney  was  then  called  in  and  examined.—Q.  Are  on  a  clerk  in  the  house  of  Messrs.  Coons  and  Co.  hankers  ?-7-A.  Yes---Q.  Have_  you  ever.seeu  the  Duke  of  York  write?  A.  I.  haVe  seen  him  sign  his  name  many  times---Q.  Do  you  think  yourself  sufficiently  acquainted  with  his  Royal  Highness's  hand hand'  ' hand'  writiiig,  as  to  be  able  to  say  that  shotl  r  iOte,  is  kti  the  Duke's"
