text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  14  highly  finished,  and  the  other  but  faintly  bud  irregularl3  sketched.  Tlfursday  last  Miss  Norton  for  the  first  time  appeared  as  .Jane  Shore,  and  Mrs.  Beaumont  as  Alicia.  The  former.  possesses  ail  the  requisites  for  her  part--;:;enies,  .jedgmeat,  youth,  a  fine  voice,  an  expressive,  and  handsome  counte countenance,  nance, countenance,  an  impressive  and  judicious  action.  The  latter  als„  claiina  some  share  of  original  genius,  an  unerring  judg judgment,  ment, judgment,  a  true  conception  of  her  part,  and  great  feeling  ;  but  however  ungallant  the  declaration  may  seem,  truth  fl  its:  be  sold  ;  the  hand  of  titne  has  withered  her  bloom,  sharpetio('  her  voice,  and  somewhat  impaired  her  powers.  Her  second  performance  of  Belvidera,  and  her  representation  of  Alicia,  have  enabled  us  to  form  a  juster  opinion  of  her  abilities.  They  arc  undoubtedly  great  ;  hut  checked  by  those  defects  Nye  have  so  lately  mentioned,  and  which  human  ingennit)  can  partly  conceal,  but  never  eradicate.  Her  jealous  scene  with  Hastings  was  not  ranting,  but  real  passion,  that  de derives  rives derives  all  its  strength  from  the  very  weakness  of  the  temalc  sex.  Her  madness  did  not  !consist  in  unnatural  screams  and  starts,  and  windmill-like  gesticulations;  it  contained  a  few  gleams  of  reason,  and  spread  a  faithful  and  melancholy  picture  of  passion,  triumphant  in  the  wreck  of  the  mind.  Miss  Norton,  in  all  her  speeches,  in  all  her  scenes,  was  true  to  nature  and  to  feeling.  The  mild  dignity,  rendered  more  affecting  by  her  self-contempt  and  humliation,  when  she  re4ists  Lord  Hastings'  passion  ;  her  spirit  bursting  through  all  the  considerations  of  prudence,  when  she  defends  the  cause  of  the  infant  king;  her  calm  resignaVon  when  her  sentence  is  pronounced;  and  the,  fervonr  with  which  shc  addresses  Heaven,  whilst  she  acknowledges  the  justice  •  of:  her  doom,  were  passages,  in  her  performance,  which  stamp  her  a  worthy  successor,  though,  as  yet,  far  from  an  equal,  to  the  British  Melpomene.  In  her  famished  scene,  her  grief  did  not  assume  the  wildness  of  ranting,  though  ex.  Airing  despair,  hut  always  preserved  the  same  dignified  character  of  cairn  resignation,  in  the  midst  of  sufferings  the  most  acute,  the  pangs  of  rejected  friendship,  still  severer  than  those  of  devouring  famine.  All  the  male  parts  in  this  tragedy  are  inferior  to  those  of  Jane  .‘:,'hore  and  and  do  not  open  a  wide  field  to  the  exertions  of  genius.  Mr.  C.  Kemble,  in  Lord  Hastings,  was  as  great  as  the  part  would  allow.  But  we  were  not  a  little  surprised  to  see  Mr.  Murray,  in  the  Duke  of  Gto'ster,  suddenly  start  to  an  unusual  degree  of  excellence.  He  has  •  always  been  justly  ranked  among  the  good  performers,  ou  whose  account  neitiwr  fame  nor  censure  strain  their  voice  :  but  on  Tte:rs.il  v  he  displayed  faithfully  and  spiritedly  the  treacliefous  him  - STYLE=superscript  loess  and  secret  ambition  of  the  cunning  Usurper,  especially  in  the  scene  in  which  he  tries  Lordfladings'  real  sentiments.  In  the  council  scene  he  was  also  really  great,  when  with  half-bursting  exulta exultation  tion exultation  he  thundered  his  accusations  against  Hastings,  and  pronounced  his  sentence.  On  Monday  night  the  Pantomime  of  Robinson  Crusoe,  which  had  not  been  acted  for  many  years,  was  revived  at  Drury  Lane,  with  great  splendour  of  scenery.  The  merit  which  this  afterpiece  possesses  over  most  spectacles  of  this  kind,  consists  in  the  interest  of  the  story,  and  the  no novelty  velty novelty  of  its  being.  divided  into  two  acts.  The  first  act  is  of  a  dum  melo-dramatic  nature  and  contains  the  chief  occur occurrences  rences occurrences  that  thole  place  in  Crusoe's  island.  The  second  is  merely  pantomimic,  and  although  the  scenery  in  both  is  beautiful,  yet  it  cannot,  like  the  celebrated  Mother  Goose,  boast  tricks  whit!)  it  seems  almost  above  the  ingenuity  of  man  to  perform.  D'Egville  in  Crusle  displayed  as  much  sober  truth  of  action,  and  as  much  judgment,  as  in  his  performance  of  Caraetacus.  Mr.  Laurent,  in  Friday,  was  only  a-tumbling  clown,  whilst  he  ought  to  have  exerted  the  graceful  activity  of  a  savage.  Mrs.  Sharp,  light,  airy  as  usual,  continued:to  prove  herself  the  best  Columbine  on  the  stage.  Theithief  defect  of  this  pantomime  is  its  length.  It  met  with  complete  success,  and  by  the  houses  which  it  draws,  seems  likely  to  repay  the  liberality  of  the  managers,  which  has  spared  no  expense  to  raider  it  worthy  of  a  Brie  tish  This  venerable  and  respected  Nobleman  died  on  Sattirday  the  18th  tilt.  in  the  80th  year  of  his  age,  at  his  house  in  licreford licrefordtreet,  treet, licrefordtreet,  of  a  disorder  in  the  bowels,  which  in  a  few  days  coma  pi.tely  exhausted  him.  His  Lordship  is  succeeded  in  his  title  his  eldest  son,  Lord  Hawke  bury.  By  his  death  the  office  ot  . STYLE=superscript  Clerk  of  the  Yells  in  Ireland,  and  Collector  of  the  Customs  Inward  of  the  Port  of  London,  became  vacant.  The  former,  we  believe,  was  given  in  reversion  by  Lord  Sidenouth,  to  his  son,  :he  Hon.  Mr.  Addington.  The  Earl  of  Liverpool  was  for  many  years  supposed  to  be  high  in  the  confidence  of  his  Majesty,  and  his  thorough  knowledge  of  the  commercial  interests  of  the  country,  rendered  him  in  a  great  degree  distinguished  as  a  po politician.  litician. politician.  Tits  noble  Earl  has  been  for  several  ears  rendered  in incapable  capable incapable  of  taking  an  active  part  in  public  affairs.  To  the  last.  however,  he  maintained  unabate,l  his  int  - STYLE=superscript  hinter  in  the  secret  Councils  of  the  State  ;  and  it  is  not  unlikely  that  his  death  may  oceasion  an  important  result.  There  has  been  no  example  in  Os  Majesty's  reign  of  a  rise  so  extraordinary,  and  of  influence  so  untemitted,  'as  that  of  the  Earl  of  Liverpool.  He  was  for  many  years  President  of  the  Board  of  Trade.  In  the  )eaf  1782  he  succeeded  to  the  family  title  of  a  Baronet  io  1786  he  was  created  Lord  Hawkesbur'  ;  and  in  1  1 STYLE=superscript  196  Earl  of  Liverpool.  lie  was  twice  married,  and  has  left  issue,  beside  the  present  Lord  Liverpool,  the  Hon.  Charles  Jenkinson.  The  Noble  Earl  never  recovered  the  shock  he  received  on  the  accident  which  happened  to  the  Cuuntess.  When  her  head-dress  caught  fire,  recollecting;  that  there  were  always  two  servants  in  the  apartment  of  the  Noble  Lord,  she  burst  into  the  room,  and  by  the  timely  as assistance  sistance assistance  she  received  from  the  men  the  flames  were  exttnguished,  but  the  Noble  Earl  survived  the  alarm  but  a  few  days.  This  venerable  Nobleman  has  left  to  his  eldest  son,  the  present  Earl,  15,000/.  per  anium,  of  which  only  about  3,5001.  per  annum  is  in  land.  To  hiS  widow,  the  Countess  of  Liverpool,  only  7001.  per  annum  for  life,  in  additiou  to  her  former  jointure,  as  Lady  Cope,  of  10001.  per  annum.  But  the  present  Earl  has  added  5001.  more  per  annum  to  his  father's  bequest  ;  and  it  is  under  stood  that  the  Duchess  of  Donet,  her  daughter,  adds  300  P:  per  annum  more.  To  the  Hon.  Cecil  Jenkinson,  his  second  son,  he  has  left  10001.  per  annum,  in  addition  to  an  estate  of  near  30001.  per  annum,  of  which  Mr.  Cecil  Jenkinson  is  already  in  posses possession,  sion, possession,  by  the  death  of  a  relation.  To  Lady  Charlotte  Grimstone,  now  Lady  Forrester,  he  has  left  only  the  700/.  per  annum  be bequeathed  queathed bequeathed  to  the  Countess  of  Liverpool,  after  her  decease.  The  landed  property  is  entailed  to  all  the  family  of  the  deukinsons,  in  tail  male,  to  a  great  extent.  EXECUTION  OF  MR.  SMITH,  FOR  THE  MURDER  OF  CAPT.  BALDERSTON,  OF  THE  ?A'  TRIAN  SLOOP  OF  WAR.  PLYMOUTH,  DEC.  Vl.—This  morning,  soon  after  eight  o'clock,  the  yellow  flag,  as  a  signal  for  an  execution,  was  hoist-  ed  on  board  the  Salvador  del  Al  undo  and  the  Parthian,  both  lying  in  Hamoaze,  and,  about  half  an  hour  before  nine,  James  Smith,  late  Master's  Mate  of  the  Parthian,  was  brought  from  the  Salvador,  in  custody  of  the  Provost  Martial,  on  board  the  Parthian,  in  order  to  undergo  the  sentence  of  the  Court  Martial,  for  the  murder  of  his  Captain.  The  Chaplain  of  the  Salvador  attended  him  on  the  deck  for  upwards  of  half  an  hour;  but,  as  he  had  made  up  his  mind,  prior  to  the  commission  of  the  crime,  ‘u  to  the  consequences  attending  it,  he  appeared  totally  callous  to  his  impending  fate,  and  met  it  with  the  most  stoic  indifference.  At  a  quarter  past  nine,  he  ascended  the  scaffold,  where  he  dip  not  remain  more  than  five  minutes,  before  the  fatal  bow  gun  tired,  and  he  was  launched  into  eternity  amidst  the  ascending  smoke.  By  some  accident  or  inattention,  on  the  part  of  those  whose  province  it  was  to  make  fast  the  rope  to  the  windlass,  the  °oil  was  suffered  to  slip,  and  the  wahappy  culprit  was  precipi precipitated,  tated, precipitated,  with  great  velocity,  to  the  waters'  edge  :  he  was  again  drawn  up,  and  after  hanging  the  usual  time,  the  lifeless  body  was  lowered  into  a  boat  alongside,  and  conveyed  to  the  Royal  Hospital  at  Stonehouse,  where  it  was  put  into  a  shell,  and  de delivered  livered delivered  to  his  friends  for  interment  in  the  evening.  He  had  been  formerly  Master  of  a  gun-brig,  was  deemed  an  excellentseaman;  but  too  fatally  addicted  to  drinking.  He  was  a  good-looking  young  man,  about  twenty-five  years  of  age,  and  near  six  feet  high.  His  father  is  a  British  Planter,  of  great  respectability,  residing  at  Santa  Cruz,  where  young  Smith  was  born  :  he  ra.:eived  his  education  at  IsiewYork.  It  has  been  reported  that  tit  had  a  wife  and  family,  but  the  report  is  erroneous.  P14_TB00011 .  .-......-.  ______  _.......  ........  .  •  11:iit  he  displayed  faithfully  and  TRIAN  SLOOP  OF  WAR.  IS  litildilVSS  and  secret  ambition  of  .  PLYMOUTH,  DEC.  28.—This  morning,  soon  after  eight  specially  in  the  scene  in  which  he  o  '  clock,  the  yellow  flag,  as  a  sig  nal  for  an  - STYLE=superscript  execution,  was  hoist-'  l  sentiments.  In  the  council  scene  ed  on  b  oard  the  Salvador  delM  undo  and  the  Parthian,  both  .  when  with  half-bursting  exulta-  lying  in  Hamoaze,  and,  about  half  an  hour  before  nine,  James  accusations  against  Hastings,  and  Smith,  late  Master's  Mate  of  the  Parthian,  was  brought  from  .  the  Salvador,  in  custody  of  the  Provost  Martial,  on  board  the  Pantomime  of  Robinson  Crusoe,  Parthian,  in  order  to  undergo  the  sentence  of  the  Court  Martial,  d  for  many  years,  was  revived  at  for  the  murder  of  his  Captain.  The  Chaplain  of  the  Salvador  attended  him  on  the  deck  for  upwards  of  half  an  h  our;  but,  as  splendour  of  scenery.  The  merit  •  he  had  made  up  his  mind,  prior  to  the  commission  of  the  crime,  (messes  over  must  spectacles  ot  ,u  to  the  con.equences  attending  it,  he  appeared  totally  callous  interest  of  the  story,  and  the  no-  to  his  imp  ending  fate,  •nd  met  it  with  7 STYLE=superscript  the  most  stoic  indifference.  I  into  two  acts.  The  first  act  is  of  At  aqua  p STYLE=superscript  rter  past  nine,  he  ascended  the  scaffold,  where  he  dip  iture  and  contains  the  chief  occur-  not  remain  more  than  five  minutes,  before  the  fatal  bow  gun  in  Crusoe's  island.  The  second  is  fired,  and  he  was  launched  into  eternity  amidst  the  ascending  d  although  the  scenery  in  both  is  smoke.  By  some  accident  or  inattention,  on  the  part  of  those  like  the  celebrated  Mother  Goose,  whose  province  it  was  to  make  fast  the  rope  to  the  windlass,  the  !ins  almost  above  the  ingenuity  of  ooil  was  suffered  to  slip,  and  the  uoliappy  culprit  was  precipi-  vine  in  Crusle  displayed  as  much  tated,  with  great  velocity,  to  the  waters'  edge  :  he  was  again  incl  as  much  judgment,  as  in  his  drawn  up,  and  after  hanging  the  usual  time,  the  lifeless  body  was  H  lowered  into  a  boat  alongside,.  and  conveyed  to  the  Royal  1,  its.  Mr.  Laurent,  in  Friday,  was  ,  l_i  :  e  s  r  i  e  u  d  ta  to  at  Stonehouse  where  it  was  put  into  a  shell,  and  de-  whilst  he  otiolit  to  have  exerte  y  dbeen  his  friends  f  or  ' STYLE=superscript  interment  i  n  the  even  i  ng.  H  e  man  a  savage.  Mrs.  Sharp,  light,  air  .s4•l-' STYLE=superscript  ..  ,  formerly  Master  of  a  gun-brig,  was  deemed  an  i  rove  herself  the  best  Columbine  on  but  too  fatally  addicted  to  drinkinr.  He  was  a  good-looking  15  ' STYLE=superscript  ect  of  this  pantomime  is  its  len  e  lili.  young  man,  about  twenty-five  years  of  age,  and  near  six  feet  ccess,  and  by  the  houses  which  it  high.  His  father  is  a  British  Planter,  of  great  respectability,  pay  the  liberality  of  the  managers,  J  residing  at  Santa  Cruz,  where  young  Smith  was  born  :  he  ease  to  render  it  worthy  of  a  Brie  ra.:eived  his  education  at  IsiewYork.  It  has  been  reported  that  ha  had  a  wife  and  family,  but  the  report  is  erroneous.  ,  .  A,"
