text
"4 STYLE=superscript  70  saw  it,  and  have  been  repeatedly  occupied  in  the  Greenland  fi'dlery,  allege  it  to  be  a  young  one,  not  more  than  a  year  old  ;  yet  its  dimensions  art'  as  follow  :  Its  extreme  length  from  the  lower  jaw  to  the  end  of  its  tail,  16  feet  ti  inches  ;  from  lower  jaw  to  the  end  of  the  holy  at  the  tail,  89  feet  ;  lower  jaw  longer  than  the  upper  jaw,  1  foot  4  inches  ;  end  of  upper  jaw  to  its  eye,  14  fret';  from  upper.jaw  to  its  dorsal  fin,  4S  feet  2  inches  ;  It-ngth  of  dorsal  fin  at  the  base.  4  feet  ;  height  of  the  dorsal  fin,  2  feet  ;  from  body  to  the  end  of  the  tail,  feet  6  inches  ;  extremity  of  the  tail,  15  feet  ;  eircum,  femme  of  the  body  at  the  dorsal  fiu,  21  feet  ;  eye  placed  from  the  spiracle,  5  feet  ;  length  of  its  mouth  from  the  lower  jaw  16  feet  6  inches;  length  of  pectoral  fin,  6  feet  ;  breadth  of  pectoral  tin,  2  feet  ;  longitudinal  lines,  (almost  straight),  beginning  under  the  mouth  to  the  middle  of  the  fish  ;  length  of  its  eye,  5  inches;  colour  of  its  lamina',  whitish  forward,  black  behind  ;  distance  of  the  eve  to  its  mouth,  inches;  6  feet  to  the  pectoral  tin  ert'im  back-bone  ;  outer  skin  peeled  off,  thickness  of  tine  writing writingpa  pa writingpa  per;  from  one  eye  to  the  other,  9  feet  9  inches  ;  breadth  of  the  lines  on  its  belly,  3  inches  ;  orifice  of  its  ear,  3  inches  ;  from  its  eye  to  the  ear,  3  feet  2  inches.  From  which  proportion,  in  a  sucking  fish  of  only  a  year  old,  those  not  skilled  in  the  Natural  History  of  such  creatures,  or  ac:  customed  to  see  them  in  great  variety,  may  form  some  concep conception  tion conception  of  what  a  whale  must  he  at  its  years  of  maturity.  It  is  pronounced  by  judges  to  he  the  Balena  Boops,  or  pike-headed  Species.  It  completely  tills  the  cavity  of  the  West-country  barge,  on  board  of  which  it  is  exhibited,  and  its  tail  projects  sear  fo  ur  yards  outside  the  stern  of  the  vessel.  It  was  killed  on  the  25th  inst.  in  the  river  Thames,  at  Sea  Reach,  some  miles  below  Gravesend,  by  Mr.  John  Barnes,  a  Pilot  of  the  latter  place,  who  was  going  in  his  boat  down  to  the  Tore,  and  observing  the  water  agitated  unusually  by  the  motions  of  the  fish,  he  approached  it  within  swivel  shot,  and  fired  at  it  three  different  times  ;  the  second  shot  passed  through  the  fish's  tail,  and  the  third  mortally  wounded  it  in  the  body,  when  by  a  sudden  and  violent  plunge  a-head,  it  run  upon  a  shoal  near  the  beach,  and  was  left  nearly  dry  at  low  water.  Four  hours  elapsed  between  the  time  the  fish  was  wounded,  until  it  was  completely  dead.  It  was  towed  the  next  title  to  the  beach  off  Gravesend,  where  it  was  exhibited  during  four  days.  It  was  brought  up  to  London,  as  we  understand,  by  the  order  of  the  Lord  Mayor,  under  the  direction  of  the  Water  Bailiff;  and  the  contrivance  for  its  conveyance  was  rather  curious.  The  barge  on  board  of  which  it  now  is,  was  brought  along-side  the  fish  at  high-water,  scuttled  and  sunk  ;  the  next  title  of  flood  the  fish  was  towed  to  a  position  directly  over  the  barge,  and  gradually  sunk  into  her,  as  the  title  ebbed.  The  barge  , STYLE=superscript  ting  on  shore  at  low  water,  was  of  course  soon  drained  through  hr.r  scuttle  holes,  and  the  plugs  be being  ing being  then  replaced,  she  floated  v.  ith  her  unwieldy  cargo  the  next  tide,  and  was  twought  up  to  her  preseut  moorings  on  Wednesday  Afternoon.  The  appearance  of  whales  in  the  Thames,  though  rare,  is  by  tin  means  umistial.  Grainpn=es,  indeed,  have  been  often  teen  so  high  as  Black  wall,  and  even  Lowlon  Bridge.  In  the  memory  of  many  per-on-  resiEng  near  the  fo,-mer  place,  four  have  been  seen  there  at  one  time,  sporting  am:  spontinz  up  the  water  to  a  considerable  height  and  in  the  year  1780,  a  whale  of  90  feet  in  length  was  killed  near  the  same  place  as  that  now  exhibiting.  It  may  he  well,  as  a  matter  of  curiosity,  to  gratify  the  public  of  the  metropolis,  ever  in,atiable  after  ranee  shows,  with  the  ex exof  of exof  this  wonder  of  the  marine  k  ingdom.  lint  the  pro prot••tis  t••tis prot••tis  e  of  bringing  into  the  centre  or  a  popidnit-  city,  for  the  mere  y  - STYLE=superscript  ,iziti  , STYLE=superscript  :ntion  of  gazers,  a  monster  of  &amp;itch  bulk,  in  a  state  of  putre putretar!  tar! putretar!  i,;n,  is  quite  another  consideration.  The  stench  is  intolerable.  z  is  the  constant  usage  of  the  inhabitants  nit  the  coasts  of  t  hose  i:ens  where  whal..s  abound,  winreever  a  dtNtd  one  drifts  near  the  shore,  immediatc:y  to  man  their  boats  or  canoes,  and  tow  it  out  a  considerable  distance  to  sea,  in  order  to  avem  the  formidable  danger  of  infection  from  its  putrescence,  it  be  thrown  high  on  their  bench  by  the  tide.  flow  fir  less  necessary  such  a  caution  may  be  in  the  centr  , STYLE=superscript  •  Of  the  City  of  London  is  worthy  of  attention.  In  all  event?,  those  who  visit  the  whale  will  do  well  In  use  t  he:ex  pedient  of  holding  to  their  month.  and  n  o  ses  !mod !modkerchiefs  kerchiefs !modkerchiefs  well  moistened  with  strong  vinegar,  to  guard  ng:aiust  iiihaling  the  putrid  of  it  emits,  that  which  few  things  can  be  move  noxious  to  health,  and  even  life.  A  contest  has  aris:ot  between  the  Lord  7,Tavor  and  the  Ad Adirt:ratty  irt:ratty Adirt:ratty  w  ith  respect  to  the  riglit  of  property  in  this  ti.it.  The  firmer  claims  it  as  Conservator  of  the  River  ;  ani  the  Tatter  consider  it  as  :t  Droit:  and  accordingly  the  Marshal  of  the  Admiralty  seised  it  4):1  l'hursnay,  inavritastandint  the  Lord  Mayor's  protest  asaiwo  such  a  proceeding...  lEri  Intel!  and  Publil-hc(l  by  and  for  .1,  B.  BELL  an*  .1.  DE  CAMP,  at  the  Office  of  Le  Bean  Monde  ;  or,  Literary  and  FashivtaT  , STYLE=superscript  vi!:  , STYLE=superscript  .  1 STYLE=superscript  1  q;:z:i  ;.  '•'n  ('ioherine•critet  )  `,:trattti;  a.nd  oia)  br  had  of  ail  the  Newsmen  in  the  United  Kingdom."
