text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER,.  phan  lad,  then  16  years  of  age,  whose  father  had  lost  his  life  in  the  service,  and  whom  he  had  brought  up.  Mr.  Nichols  examined  by  the  CHANCELLOR  of  the  Excnr-  QUER.—Q.  Did  Mrs.  Clarke  live  at  the  witness's  house  at  Hampstead  as  a  lodger?  A.  Yes.—Q.  At  what  time?  A.  She  came  there  in  October,  1807.—Q.  How  long  did  she  stay  ?  A.  To  the  25th  of  June  following.---Q.  In  what  light  did  she  re represent  present represent  herself?  A.  Asa  widow.—Q.  Did  she  after  represent  her herself  self herself  in  any  other  character  ?  A.  Yes,  I  understood  from  her  that  she  was  married  to  Mr.  Dowler.—Q.  What  name  did  she  assume  at  the  time  ?  She  went  by  the  name  of  Mrs.  Clarke.  —  Q.  What  reasons  did  she  give  you  for  retaining  the  name  of  Clarke  ?  A.  That  if  the  Duke  of  York  knew  she  was  mar married  ried married  to  Mr.  Dowler,  he  would  send  him  abroad.—Q.  When  did  she  tell  hiin  so  ?  A.  Some  time  after  she  had  been  in  the  house.  —Q.  When  did  she  tell  him  she  was  married  to  Mr.  Dowler?  A.  Soon  after  Mr.  Dowler  came  to  llampstead.—Q.  Did  wit witness  ness witness  ever  say  he  would  be  up  with  Mrs.  Clarke  ?  A.'No,  never  to  any  bodv.—Q.  Has  he  in  his  possession  letters  belonging  to  Mrs.  Clarke?  A.  Yes.--Q.  How  did  witness  come  by  these  letters  ?  A.  They  ‘vere  sent  down  to  light  the  fire  with  ;  they  were  not  given  to  me.  The  maid  servant  who  received  them,  put  them  into  a  closet  and  used  them  as  she  wanted  them.  After  much  discussion,  it  was  agreed  that  the  papers  should  he  referred  to  a  select  Committt!e,  and  Mr.  Wardle  expressed  himself  perfectly  satisfied  with  this  arrangement.  Robinson,  a  porter  attending,  at  Slaughter's  Coffee-house,  was  the  next  A%  itness  e STYLE=superscript  'Did  Mr.  Dowler  ever  live  with  a  lady,  as  man  and  wife,  at  that  hotel  ?  A.  Yes,  for  some  short  time.—Q.  Where  did  the  lady  who  went  by  the  name  of  Mrs.  Dowler  live?  A.  At  No.  14,  Bedford-place,  Bedford-square.  Samuel  Well,  a  waiter  at  Slaughters,  was  the  next  witness.—  Q.  Do  you  know  Mrs.  Dowler?  A.  Yes.—When  did  you  see  her  last?  Some  day  last  week  in  company  with  Mr.  Dowler.  —Q.  How  long  did  she  stay?  A.  She  staid  there  the  whole  night)—Adjourued.  Wednesday,  Feb.  15.  DUKE  OE  YORK.  After  some  prefatory  conversation,  principally  carried  on  be between  tween between  Lord  FOLKSTONC  and  the  CHANCELLOR  of  the  Ex-  HEW;  ER,  Mr.  WARDLE  brought  forward  the  letters  that  had  been  re referred  ferred referred  the  preceeding  evening  to  a  Select  Com:nittee;  and  mov moved,  ed, moved,  that  before  they  were  laid  upon  the  table,  Mrs.  Clarke  he  called  in  to  prove  the  hand  writing  of  the  se  -, STYLE=superscript  Teal  parties.  Mrs.  Clarke  was  accordingly  called  in,  and  proved  the  hand-writing.  Three  letters  were  then  read  fro,a  S.  Carter  to  Mrs.  Clarke;  they  were  expressive  of  the  high  gratitude  of  the  writer  to  Mrs.  Clarke  for  her  kindness  to  him,  and  entreated  her  pecuniary  assistance  to  enable  him  to  make  an  appearance  suitable  to  the  situation  to  which  she  bad  raised  him.  The  letters  of  Baroness  Nollekens  were  not  read,  as  unconnected  with  the  military  pro promotions;  motions; promotions;  and  those  of  General  Clavering  were  merely  compli complimentary,  mentary, complimentary,  except  the  mention  that  he  tanked  her  for  former  ap applications  plications applications  to  the  Duke,  though  unsuccessful,  and  begged  that  she,  should  an  opportunity  occur  for  mentioning  it,  would  make  an  offer  on  his  part,  to  raise  a  battalion  for  unlimited  service.  Mrs.  Clarke  was  then  called  in,  and  asked  through  what  means  she  procured  a  Pay  mastership  for  Mr.  Elderton  ?  A.  Through  the  Duke  of  York,  though  very  much  against  his  wishes---Q.You  stated  that  the  Duke  desired  Mr.  Greenwood  to  procure  the  office  of  Paymaster  for  Mr.  Cleirles  Lldertim,  against  the  consent  of  Mr.  Greenwood;  how  do  Sou  know  this  fact  ?  A.  His  Royal  HighneSs  told  me  so  himself.  IThe  Witness  was  here  desired  to  withdraw.]  Mr.  WARDLE  then  moved  that  T.  Walker  be  called  in,  and  the  substance  of  his  evidence  was  as  follows  :—That  he  had  fre frequently  quently frequently  seen  Miss  Taylor  at  Gloucester-place;  that  Mrs.  Clarke,  while  he  was  in  her  house'  in  Gloucester-place,  had  8  horses  and  two  carriages;  that  he  had  all  the  bills  for  the  keep  of  those  hor.es,  as  far  iIS  he  kneW  the  time;  that  Samuel  Carter  had  lived  with  Captaia  Sutton  previous  to  his  coining  to  Mrs.  Clarke;  that  he  had  never  heard  whose  son  he  was  supposed  to  be.  Mrs  Favorite  examined  by  the  ATTORNEY  GENA  RA  L.—Q.  Do  boa  recolleq  any  thing  respecting  the  change  of  a  bank  note,  previous  to  the  Duke's  going  to  We)  month,  and  Mrs.  s  going  to  Worthing  ?  A.  Yes,  I  do;  I  brought  a  note  dowtr  th  the  Iluke's  servant,  Lodovick,  and  desired  him  to  get  it  changed.  He  reirtied  at  eleven  o'clock,  when  I  took  the  '  chap  re  tip  stairs  ;  the  Dake  of  York  was  in  the  room  with  Airs.  Clarke,  in  short  they  were  in  bed.  The  IirIILCS3  was  then  examined  by  the  4ttorney  General,  as  •••  •  FEB.  19.  to  her  mode  of  life  previous  to  her  going  to  live  with  Mrs-  Clarke,  whom  she  stated  she  was  acquainted  with  for  ten  years.  During  this  interrogation,  she  prevaricated,  and  hesitated  a  good  deal.—Q.  What  was  the  extent  of  Mri.  Clarke's  establish establishment,  ment, establishment,  and  what  number  of  servants  did  she  keep  ?  A.  Ido  not  know  exactly  the  ex  pence  of  her  establishment;  we  had  always  very  elegant  dinners  served  up,  and  what  could  not  be  made  up  at  home  was  had  from  the  pastry-cooks.—Q.  Who  furnished  the  house  in  Gloucester-place  ?  A.  Oakley,  in  Bond-street.--Q.  Who  furnished  the  glass  and  china  ?  A.  Some  tradesman  iu  Oxford-street.---Q.  Who  was  the  silversmith  who  furnished  the  articles  of  plate  ?  A.  Birkett  and  Parker,  in  Princes-street.---  Q.  Did  you  give  the  daily  orders  to  the  different  tradesmen  ?  A.  I  gave  some,  as  was  my  duty  as  housekeeper.---Q.  And  did  the  tradesmen  understand  that  they  were  to  look  to  the  Duke  for  their  money  ?  A.  Yes  ;  they  would  sometimes  ask  me  when  Mrs.  Clarke  was  to  have  money  from  the  Duke.  Mrs.  Clarke  questioned.---Q.  One  of  your  letters  appears  on  the  printed  minntes,  in  which  you  mention,  that  you  gave  up  some  letters  of  Donovan's  to  Mr.  Wardle,  in  order  to  facilitate  a  negotiation,  what  negotiation  was  that  ?  A.  I  had  learned,  whilst  I  was  with  the  Duke  of  York,  that  commissions  were  often  granted  on  the  recommendation  of  a  General  Officer,  or  of  a  Member  of  Parliament  ;  Mr.  Donovan  wished  me  to  procure  a  recommendation  from  a  Member  of  Parliament,  and  I  ailplied  to  Mr.  Wardle.---Q.  Did  you  ever  make  any  return  to  the  In Income  come Income  Tax  ?  A.  N  9,  not  as  I  recollect.---Q.  How  many  horses  and  carriages  -  were  you  assessed  at  ?  A.  I  cannot  say,  I  was  always.in  the  habit  of  forgetting  one  or  two  of  them  when  the  Collectors  called.  Mr.  Greenwood  examined  by  Mr.  WA  RDLE.-Q.  Is  Mr.  Froome  now  in  your  office  ?  A.  No..—Q.  Did  oat  Mr.  Froome  come  to  town  with  the  express  purpose  of  succeeding  one  of  your  clerks?  A.  No.—Q.  For  what  purpose  did  he  come  to  town  ?  A.  To  settle  some  old  accounts  with  me.—Q.  Do  you  know  Mrs.  Sinclair  Sutherland  ?  A.  Yes,  I  have  :ward  her  name  ?—Q.  How  came  you  to  know  her  ?  A.  Why  the  Duke  of  Y  ork  certainly  mentioned  her  to  me.  Mr.  Greenwood  was  called  in,  and  examined  by  Lord  FoLic-  STONE,  whether  he  knew  of  any  connection  between  the  Duke  of  York  and  Mrs.  Sutherland  ;  whether  he  had  ever  heard  Mrs.  Sinclair  say  that  she  was  with  child  by  his  Royal  Highness  ?  He  had  heard  of  the  connection,  and  knew  that  Mrs.  Sinclair  had  represented  herself  as  being  with  child  by  the  Duke  of  York.—lle  was  then  requested  to  state,  whether  he  had  ever  solicited  this  lady  to  get  a  troop  for  a  friend  of  his?  Which  he  denied.  Whether  any  large  suM.of  money  had  been  paid  by  the  Duke  of  York  to  Mrs.  Clarke  through  witness's  hands  ?  Who  declared  that  no  sum  whatever  had  passed  through  his  hands.—  After  a  few  other  questions  of  little  importance,  witness  was  or ordered  dered ordered  to  withdraw,  and  Colonel  Gordon  was  called  in.  Lord  FoLxsToNr.  inquired  whether  he  possessed  any  docu documents  ments documents  respecting  the  proposed  exchange  between  Colonel  Knight  and  Brooke?  WitneSs  produced  them,  and  they  were  read  aloud,  but  contained  nothing  remarkable.  He  was  then  desired  to  state  when  he  had  become  acquainted  with  Major  Turner,  and  whether  that  officer  informed  him  of  his  reasons  for  resigning  ?  lie  replied  that  in  1803  he  had  become  acquainted  with  the  Major,  and  that  the  reason  he  gave  for  resigning  was,  his  having  got  into  an  un unfortunate  fortunate unfortunate  scrape  with  some  woman,  whose  name  he  never  had  mentioned.  That  he  was  about  to  state  that  reason  to  the  Com Commander  mander Commander  in  Chief,  but  that  witness  advised  him  not,  as  he  did  not  think  it  necessary  that  the  private  affairs  of  officers  should  be  revealed  on  such  an  occasion.  He  was  next  interrogated  as  to  the  credit  attached,  in  the  Commander  in  Chief's  office,  to  ano anonymous  nymous anonymous  letters  ;  and  replied  that  they  were  always  attended  to  in  a  proper  way.  Witness  was  then  ordered  to  withdraw  ;  and  Genera)  Rockford  was  called  in,  and  to  the  questions  put  to  him  by  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  relative  to  Samuel  Carter,  merely  replied,  that  he  had  heard  he  was  a  natural  son  of  Captain  Sutton,  who  he  thought  gave  hint  a  good  education,  and  brought  him  up  as  his  'own.  When  asked,  whether  Samuel  Carter  was  in  the  habit  of  dining  at  Captain  Sutton's  table,  he  declared  his  total  ignorance,  as  he  himself  had  never  (lined  with  that  other.  lie  was  then  ordered  to  withdraw,  and  the  Speaker  having  reported  progress,  the  House  adjourned.  Thursday,  Feb.  16.  THE  DUKE  01'  YORK.  Lord  FoutsrorrE  rose,  and  adverted  to  the-matter  which  he  spoke  of  last  night,  respecting  papers  in  the  hands  of  a  person  that  he  then  said  militated  cuusiderably  in  his  mind  agaiuit"
