text
"TOE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  tic  o'clock  in  the  morning,  or  it  shall  he  destroyed,  I  will  not,  tor  ought  Ito  withdraw  my  troops.  Yon  have  ruassacred  tl.e  unfortunate  French  prisoners  who  had  fallen  into  your  hands  ;  only  a  few  days  ago,  you  suffered  two  persons  in  the  suit  of  the  Russian  Ambassador  to  he  dragged  along  and  mur murdered  dered murdered  in  the  public  streets,  because  they  were  French Frenchmen  men Frenchmen  born.  The  incapacity  and  baseness  of  a  General  had  put  into  your  power  troops  who  surrendered  on  the  field  of  battle,  and  the  capitulation  has  been  violated.  You,  Mr.  Morla,  what  sort  of  an  epistle  did  you  write  to  that  General  ?  It  well  became  you,  Sir,  to  talk  of  pillage;  yon  who,  on  enter entering  ing entering  Roussillon,  carried  off  all  the  women,  and  distributed  them  as  booty  among  your  soldiers!—What  right  had  you  to  hold  such  language  elsewhere  ?—The  capitulation  ought  to  have  in induced  duced induced  you  to  pursue  a  different  line  of  conduct.  See  what  has  been  the  conduct  of  flue  English,  who  are  far  from  piquing  them them,:elves  ,:elves them,:elves STYLE=superscript  on  being  rigid  observers  of  the  Law  of  Nations.  They  have  complained  of  the  Convention  of  Portugal,  but  they  have  tarried  it  into  effect.  To  violate  military  treaties,  is  to  renounce  all  civilization,  it  is  placing  ourselves  on  a  footing  with  the  bAnditti  of  the  desert.  How  dare  you,  then,  presume  to  solicit  a  capitulation—you  who  violated  that  of  Baylen  ?  See  how  injustice  and  bad  faith  'always  recoil  upon  the  guilty,  and  operate  to  their  prejudice.  I  had  a  fleet  at  Cadiz  :  it  was  under  the  protection  of  Spain,*  yet  you  directed  against  it  the  mortars  of  the  town  where  you  commanded.-1  had  a  Spanish  army  in  my  rankS  ;  1  would  rather  have  viewed  them  embark  on  board  the  English  ships,  and  be  obliged  to  precipitate  it  from  the  rocks  of  Epinosa,  than  to  disarm  it;  11  would  rather  prefer  having  7000  more'  •  enemies  to  fight,  than  be  deficient  in  honour  and  good  faith.  Return  to  Madrid—l  g  ive  you  till  six  o'clock  tomorrow  morn mornin  ing mornin  --return  at  that  hour—you  have  only  to  inform  me  of  the  submission  of  the  poople—if  not  4  you  and  your  troops  shall  all  be  put  to  the  This  speech  of  the  Emperor,  repeated  in  the  midst  of  the  respectable  people,  gave  the  certainty  that  he  commanded  in  person.  The  losses  sustained  during  the  fore foregoing  going foregoing  day,  had  carried  terror  and  repentance  into  all  minds.  During  the  night  the  most  mutinous  withdrew  themselves  from  'he  danger  by  flight,  and  a  part  of  the  troops  was  disbanded.  At  ten  o'clock,  on  the  sth,  Gen.  Belliard  took  the  command  of  Madrid  ;  all  the  posts  were  put  into  the  hands  of  the  French,  and  a  general  pardon  was  proclaimed.  From  this  moment,  men,  women,  and  children,  spread  them themselves  selves themselves  about  the  streets  in  perfect  security.  The  shops  were  open  till  eleven  o'clock.—All  the  citizens  set  themselves  to  de destroy  stroy destroy  the  barricades  and  re-pave  the  streets,  the  monks  returned  into  their  Convents,  and  in  a  few  hours  Madrid  presented  the  most  extraordinary  contrast,  a  contrast  inexplicable  to  those  unaccumstomed  to  the  manners  of  great  towns.  So  many  men,  who  cannot  conceal  themselves  what  they  would  have  done  in  similar  circumstances,  express  their  astonishment  at  the  genero generosity  sity generosity  of  the  French.  Fifty  thousand  stand  of  arms  have  been  given  up,  and  100  pieces  of  cannon  are  collected  at  the  Retiro.  The  anguish  in  which  the  inhabitants  of  this  wretched  city  ha%o  lived  for  these  four  months  cannot  be  described.  The  Junta  was  without  influence;  the  molt  ignorant  and  maddest  of  men  had  all  the  power  in  their  hands,  and  the  people  at  every  instant  massacred,  or  threatened  with  the  gallows,  their  Magistrate;  and  t  i  r  Generals.  The  General  of  Brigade.  MaiGon,  has  been  wounded.  Gene General  ral General  Brsvere,  Rho  advanced  imprudently  the  moment  the  firing  maied,  has  bee  a  killed.  Twelve  soldiers  have  been  killed,  and  Jiffy  Irounilt-d.  The  loss,  so  trifling  for  an  event  of  so  much  os  poriaoce,  i.  ins  to  the  smallness  of  the  number  of  troops  .01ff..reJ  toenga  , STYLE=superscript  e  it  is  v%N  n  besitles,  we  most  ertv,,  to  the  oAtretne  cowardice  of  all  those  who  had  arms  in  their  hands  again:t  us.  The  artillery,  arcording  to  its  usual  custom,  has  done  `rent  tervices.  Ten  thousand  fugitives,  who  had  escaped  from  Bur  o%  and  4 STYLE=superscript  :omosierra,  and  the  second  diviiiun  of  the  It  rms.  of  aeF.erv:  , STYLE=superscript  ,  tvere  on  the  :id  within  three  tearores  of  Madrid;  but  being  charged  by  a  piquet  of  dragoow,  they  tied,  abandoning  40  pieces  of  cannon,  and  tl9  caissons.  A  meritorion:  trait  cited.—An  old  General,  retired  from  the  service,  and  aged  eighty  years,  was  in  his  house  at  Madrid,  sear  the  street  of  Alcala—a  French  Otlieer  entered,  not:  took  I  up  his  quarters  there,  with  his  party.  This  respectable  old  man  appeared  before  him,  holdiaw  a  young  girl  by  the  hand,  and  said,  an  old  soldier—l  know  the  rights  and  Ow  /icentionsness  of  war—there  is  my  date:liter-1  give  her  900,000  litres  for  her  portion—save  her  honour,  and  be  her  Ills  young  ()Dicer  to  toy  old  woo  )  /  114.U:oily,  awl  his  hutuer  JAN.  I.  under  his  protection.  low  culpable  are  they  who  expose  so  many  peaceful  citizens,  so  many  unfortunate  inhabitants  of  a  great  capital,  to  so  many  misfortunes  !  The  Duke  of  Dantzick  arrived  at  Segovia  on  the  3d.  The  Duke  of  Istria  is  gone  in  pursuit  of  the  division  of  Pena,  which.  having  escaped  from  the  battle  of  Tudela,  took  the  route  of  Ouadalaxara.  Florida  Manus,  and  the  Junta,  had  fled  to  'l'uledo.  They  did  not  thiuk  themselves  in  safety  In  that  town  neither,  and  have  gone  to  take  refuge  with  the  English.  The  conduct  of  the  English  is  shameful.  On  the  20th  Novem November  ber November  they  were  at  the  Escurial  to  the  number  of  6001)  men.  They  pretended  they  would  do  nothing  less  than  pass  the  Pyrenees,  and  come  to  the  Garrnne.  Their  troops  are  very  fine,  and  well  disciplined.  The  confidence  with  which  they  had  inspired  the  Spaniards  is  inconceivable.  Same  hoped  that  this  division  would  go  to  Sonsosierra;  others,  that  it  would  come  to  defend  he  capital  of  so  dear  an  ally.  Scarcely  were  they  informed  that  the  Emperor  was  at  Somosierra,  when  the  English  troops  beat  a  retreat  on.the  Escurial.  From  thence,  combining  their  march  with  the  division  which  was  at  Salamanca,  they  have  taken  their  course  towards  the  sea.  Arms,  powder,  and  clothing,  they  have  given  to  said  a  Spaniard,  but  their  soldiers  came  only  to  excite  us,  to  lead  us  astray,  ataFto  abandon  us  in  the  critical  But  are  you  answered  the  French  Officer,  of  the  most  recent  facts  of  our  history.  What.  have  they  done  for  the  Stadtholder,  for  Sardinia,  for  Austria?  What  have  they  done  recently  for  Russia  ?  What  have  they  done  still  more  recently  for  Sweden'  They  every  where  foment  war;  they  distribute  arms  like  poisou  ?  but  they  shed  their  blood  only  for  their  direct  and  personal  interests.  Expect  nothing  else  from  their  replied  the  Spaniard,  their  cause  was  ours.  Forty  thousand  Eng•  lish,  added  to  our  forces  at  Tudela,  and  at  Espinosa,  might  have  balanced  the  fortune  of  the  war,  and  saved  Portugal.  But  at  present,  that  our  army  of  Blake  on  the  left  ;  that  of  the  centre,  and  that  of  Arragon  on  the  right,  are  destroyed;  that  Spain  is  almost  entirely  conquered,  and  that  reason  is  about  to  complete  its  submission,  what  is  to  become  of  Portugal  ?  It  is  not  at  Lisbon  that  the  English  ought  to  defend  themselves  ;  they  ought  to  have  done  so  at  Espinosa,  at  Burgos,  at  Tudela,  at  Somosierra,  and  bdure  NO.  1.-TO  TIEE  COMMANDANT  OF  Tilt  TOWN  OF  MADNIN  Before  Madrid,  Dee.  3,  1808.  The  circumstances  of  the  war  having  conducted  the  Fresich  army  to  the  gates  of  Madrid,  and  an  the  dispositions  being  made  to  take  possession  of  the  town  by  storm,  I  hold  it  right,  and  con conformable  formable conformable  to  the  usage  of  all  nations,  to  summon  you,  Monsieur  General,  not  to  expose  a  town  so  important  to  all  the  horrors  of  an  assault,  nor  to  render  so  many  peaceful  inhabitants  victims  of  the  evils  of  war.  Wishing  to  omit  nothing  to  inform  you  of  your  rent  situation,  I  scud  you  the  present  summons  by  one  of  your  Officers  who  has  been  made  prisoner,  and  who  has  had  an  opportunity  of  seeing  all  the  means  that  the  army  has  to  reduce  the  town.  -  Receive,  Monsieur  General,  the  assurances  of  my  higlif  consideration.  Major-Gen.  ALEX.  B.ERTHIEB.  sritwisn.)  TO  MIS  MOST  SElt  EN  E  RIGIIYEFS  TUE  rR  Ca  NRUFCHATEL.  it  is  indispensably  incumbent  upon  me,  most  Serene  Senor,  to  consult  previous  to  my  giving  a  catagorical  answer  to  your  Highness,  the  Constituted  Authorities  of  my  Court,  and,  more moreover,  over, moreover,  to  ascertain  the  dispositions  of  the  people  as  impressed  by  the  circumstances  of  the  day.  For  these  purposes  I  intreat  your  (fig-hness  to  grant,  for  this  tiny,  a  suspension  of  arms,  in  ►►nier  that  I  may  e•eitttply  ►cith  those  ditties,  assuring  you,  that  early  im  the  morning,  or  thi  , STYLE=superscript  ,night,  I  w  ill  liend  a  General  Officer  w  ith  m  answer  to  s  our  flightless  ;  assitrin;  C  ott,  that  I  profess  to  you  a  5  tiLf  consideration  due  to  your  high  rank  and  merit.  .114.1quIs  C4sTlL.l.4ft  _Madrid,  Der.  3,  1  808.  To  T  F.  cr.xrh  %T.  Calf  srznrwrc  tT  M.%DRfT).  Imperial  Camp  before  Madrid,  Dec.  4,  eleven  A.  M.  Kir  ft  Cc.;  f.  CA  ST  I;  1.  A  A  11—TO  (I-fend  I STYLE=superscript  .lladrid  t.  7  contrary  to  the  principles  of  war,  and  inhuman  towards  the  in.  habitanft.  If  is  Majesty  authorizes  we  to  send  pot  fl  ,econd  sum summons.  mons. summons.  Immcme  batterie,4  arc  mounted  ;  miner,  are  prepared  to  •blow  ttp  your  prisaipal  buildings;  columns  of  troop,  are  at  the  entrance;  of  the  town,  of  which  ,ome  companies  of  sharp-shoot-  , STYLE=superscript  •  ers  have  made  them  elves  tua,ters;  but  the  Emperor,  alwaNs  geuerousin  the  COUIlle  of  Ilia  victories,  suspends  the  attack  till"
