text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  46  POPULA.R  PR  EACIIER.  lyo  t  xxip.  •  Let  me  board  with  care.  With  frugal  gunning,  with  the  niggard's  art  ?  A.  few  fix'd  principles,  in  early  life,  Ere  lad  )lence  impede  the  search,  explored;  Then,  like  old  Latimer,  when  age  impairs  My  judgment's  eye,  w  ben  quibbling  schools  attack  Illy  grounded  hope,  or  subtler  wits  deride,  Wilt  I  not  blush  to  shun  the  vain  debate  :  And  this  mine  answer—'  Tdns,'tw•as  thus,  I  tbought,  My  mind  yet  vigorous,  and  my  soul  entire  ;  Thus  will  I  tbiuk,  a,erse  to  listen  more  To  intricate  discussion  prone  19  stray  !'  SaENSTONE,  REV-  RICTIARD  YATES,  B.D.  F.S.A.  ALTERN4IE  rßgAcarit  TO  THE  PHIL4NTHROPIC  CH/PEE.  I  HAVE  lately  seen,  not  without  surprise,  attempts  to  I  Depreciate  the  character  of  the  popular  preacher.  One  of  these  adversaries  of  popular  preachers  presents  himself  where  such  species  of  opposition  ought  to  have  been  least  A  ikneficed  clergyman  in  the  says  the  Anti-Jacobin  Review,  page  iB,  for  December  last,  should  not  pass  one  lialfof  the  year  in  frequenting  places  of  fashionable  resort,  or  ID  great  towns;  and  a  good  parish  priest  is  a  mach  more  re respectable  spectable respectable  character  than  any  popular  Without  demanding  for  what  purpose  an  invidious  distinction  Is  here  drawn  between  the  popular  preacher  and  the  parish  priest;  why,  it  may  be  asked,  cannot  the  same  man  be  at  once  *good  parish  priest  and  a  respectable  popular  preacher?  Be Because  cause Because  he  possesses  qualities  and  qnalifications  w  hick  enable  hid.  to  command  the  pulpit,  is  he,  therefore,  unfitted  to  discharge  the  parochial  duties  of  the  priest  ?  Does  not  religious  faith  ordina ordinarily  rily ordinarily  come  by  bearing,  and  attentive  hearing  by  acceptable  smashing  Is  it  not,  indeed,  to  the  paucity  of  the  number  of  esteemed  preachers,  that  we  are  to  attribute  the  desertion  of  too  Many  of  oar  churches  ;  and,  are  the  closet  exhortations  of  any  divine  likely  to  be  less  efficacious,  because  his  public  discourses  ore  numerously  attended,  and  perfectly  appreciated,  by  his  coil coilgregation  gregation coilgregation  ?  There  is  no  insuperable  bar,  no  impassable  gulf,  Netween  the  honourable  elevation  of  the  popular  preacher  and  sloe  dignified  humility  of  the  parish  priest.  What  is  a  popular  preacher  ?—lle  is  one  who  is  disinterested-  Tot  distinguished,  who  has  honestly  acquired  the  suffrages  of  the  people.  He  ~naiad  no  surreptiiious  superiority.  lie  is  great,  ,  assavell  as  good;  and,  while  he  most  conscientiously  discharges  tl:e  unostentatious  avocations  of  the  priest,  he  also  confers  lustre  i  his  sublime  station  as  a  preacher.  He  is  both  t!se  clew  of  the.'  4.sseutiow  and  the  manna  of  the  dcsart.  It  is  mistaking,  if  it  be  not  designedly  misrepresenting,  the  popular  preacher,  when  he  is  described  as  actuated  only  by  the  trvt  of  fame;  as  one  who  conceives  !iimseil  pricik•ged  to  ts  pas  s  arte  half  of  the  year  in  frequenting  places  of  fashionable  resort,  4r  in  great  He  will,  if  he  knows  and.  feels  his  duty,  samtent  himself  with  parochial  popularity.  He  will,  if  provi proviiikaitially  iikaitially proviiikaitially  appointed  a  beneficed  clergyman  in  the  srside  and  labour,  except  in  cases  of  excusable  absence  from  eisera,  among  the  people  committed  to  his  charge;  and,  by  his  talents  and  conduct,  eminently  conduce  to  their  edification,  his  own  credit,  and  the  honour  and  stability  of  the  church  of  which  bit  is  a  minister.  It  is  thus  that  we  must  conceive  of  the  justly  prspular  preacher.  Let  the  respectable  writer  in  the  Antic-Jacobin  Review,  how howeser,  eser, howeser,  heassured  that  he  is  not  likely  to  find  me  really  dissenting  ftoin  him  respecting  the  momentous  subject  of  clerical  residence  'nerally.  Far  enough  am  I  frost  conceding  to  ooe  of  the  cri-  JAN.  15.  tics  in  the  twenty-fifth  part  of  the  Edinhargh  Review,  that,  present,  the  torrent  sets  too  strongly  against  non.residence  'tor  can  I  see  him,  whom  I  almost  suspect  to  be  a  bene  fi  ced  tergyman  in  the  declare  he  should  not  be  surprised  to  find  the  clergy  absenting  themselves  from  their  beoefices  by  kind  of  without  myself  feeling  sentiments  of  the  , STYLE=superscript  roost  serious  indignation  !  If  this  critic  be  a  cleric,  which  I  now  'ore  than  suspect,  it  seems  no  violation  of  mental  charity  to  believe  that  he  is  one  of  those  beneficed  clergymen  who  pass  ode  half  of  the  year  in  frequenting  places  of  fashionable  resort,  or  in  great  He,  and  such  as  him,  do  not,  ofeourse,  belong  to  iy  definition  of  a  popular  preacher.  Pulpiteers  are  not  preachers.  ilighly  serviceable  and  nsefully  eminent,  still  let  us  cordially  air  low  to  the  popular  preacher,notwithstanding  thoseabuses  incident  to  cleri,cal  popularity,  the  aseendaocy  to  which  he  seems  'post  hes  !  nourably  entitled.  Since  spiritual  shepherds  are  not  wholly  exempted  even  from  the  very  benefit'  influence  of  envy,  but  are  men  of  like  passions  with  the  weakest  of  their  flocks,  it  may  become  those  of  them,  who  habitually  condemn  popular  preach preaching,  ing, preaching,  to  canvass  their  hearts  ae  to  the  causes  of  such  disapptoba  l  tion;  and  to  ascertain,  with  the  precision  of  real  piety  ?  bow  far  their  own  inablility  to  obtain  popularity,  does,  thirties  .  knowingly  on  their  part,  incite  then)  todeery  the  merit  of  popes  laxity  in  other  preachers?  If  what  we  tall  popularity  is  sot  the  object—it  can  never  be  the  end  !—of  any  plows  preacher.  is  he  to  abase  himself,  or  endure  the  persecution  of  others,  became  he  happens  to  have  honestly  acquired  the  highest  estimation  among  his  contemporaries?  Christianity  does  nor  enjoin  this  kind  of  penance,  and  humanity  does  not  exact  it.  Circumstances  appeared  to  me  to  require  some  explanation  of  my  own  sentiments  respecting  popular  preaching.  Having  so  far  explained,  let  me  trust  not  unsatisfactorily,  my  tbonghts  on  that  subject,  I  proceed  with  the  immediate  business  of  thia  paper.  It  is  the  honour  of  the  present  preacher,  the  Rev.  RICHARD  YATES,  that  he  owes  his  respectability  to  those  causes  by  which  the  individual  becomes  estimable  to  society;  that  whatever  eminence  he  has  obtained,  either  ecclesiastical  or  lite literary,  rary, literary,  is  the  result  of  ability,  ofesertioe,  and  of  integrity.  He  is  of  Jesus  College,  in  the  University  of  Cambridge.  He  has  been  many  years  Chaplain  to  his  Majesty's  Royal  Hospital,  at  Chelsea,—a  painful  and  arduous  preferment,  the  very  active  duties  of  which  he  fulfils  most  exemplarily.  Ile  is  also  Rector  of  Eve,  alias  Ashen;  and,  what  brings  him  directly  under  my  cognizance  in  this  place,  he  is  now  Alternate  Preacher,  in  eon.  eert  with  the  Rev,  Isaac  Jacktuan,  to  the  Philanthropic  Sod.  et  v.  lie  is  unmarried.  Air.  Yates  appears  advantageously  in  the  pulpit.  His  person  tall,  and  hat.  much  of  gentlemanly  dignity  ;  his  deportment  is  grave,  without  the  remotest  approximation  to  pompousness;  and  his  manner,  which  is  uniformly  interesting,  is  often  ani animated,  mated, animated,  and,  sometimes,  deeply  affecting.  His  countenance  is  highly  expressive  of  his  intelligence  and  sincerity  us  a  preacher.  If  he  would  still  more  disembarrass  himself  from  the  trammels  of  manuscript,  to  which,  from  his  apparent  solicitude  as  to  correctness,  he  pays  ton  much  attention,  he  would  rise  greatly  in  the  effect  of  his  public  delivery.  His  discourses  are  plain,  and,  generally,  practical.  With•  out  being  loaded  with  ornament,  his  language  is  not  deficient  either  in  elegance  or  eloquence.  I  have  observed,  however,  that  his  sentences  are  sometimes  so  run  out,  as  to  become  rather  in•  volved;  and,  that  they  abound  too  much  in  parentheses.  It  is  on  subjects  of  humanity  nr  benevolence,  n  he  re  the  h  ear  t  communicates  its  warm►h  to  the  imagination,  that  this  preaelsof  most  iudisputably  excels.  Whether  the  occasion  be  private  or  public,  on  which  his  abilities  are  called  forth,—wbetber  It  hp  to  animate  the  social  sympathies  to  the  practice  of  the  •  tive  duties,  or  to  rouse  individual  kindness  is  aid  of  diffusive  charity,-.-it  is  on  these  occalioas  that  Mr.  Yates,  to  adopt  P12_TB00011 P12_TB00012 1  •"
