text
"S  Javee  Parke  Ilivrison,  Saint  tees,  Cumberland,  cotton-mann cotton-mann!acturer,  !acturer, cotton-mann!acturer,  .Tan.  at  six,  '24,  and  Feb.  11,  at  twelve,  at  the  Bridge  Inn,  Bolton.  Attornies,  Messr.  Haworth  and  Sun,  lton  i  and  Mesrs.  Millie  and  Parry,  Temple.  Joseph  I  lunt,  Liverpool,  haberdasher  and  hosier,  Jan.  24,  '25,  And  Feb.  11,  at  one,  at  the  Star  awl  Garter  Tavern,  I,i  vrool.  Attornies,  Mr.  Blackstocli.,  St.  Mildred's-court,  P9.ultry,  Lon Lon!Ion  !Ion Lon!Ion  ;  and  Mr.  Morrow,  Paradise-street,  Liverpool.  •  William  Dutton,  Li  vprponl,  grocer,  Jan.  23;21,  apd  Feb.  11,  at  one,  at  the  Globe  Tavern,  Li‘erpool.  Attoinies,'Mr.  Woods,  Liverpool  ;  and  Mr.  Blackstock,  Saint  Mildred's-court,  ,  London.  •  John  Hayes,  Oxford,  grocer  and  tea-dealer,  Jan.  19,'11,  at  eleven,  and  Feb.  11;  at  t  welve,  at  London.  -Attorney,  Mr.  Young,  West  Smithfield.  nivinr,Nns.  •  Jan.  17.  .Tohn  Rowe,  Castle  street,  I'alcon•square,  Itterchant,  alien,  at  Guildhall.  Jan.  17.  Joseph  Sayer,  Upper.North-Place,  and  John  Jeffery,  Titchlield-street,  coach  and  harnessl.niakers,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall.  Jan.  21.  Joseph  King  and  William  Edward  King,  Coycnt-  Garden,  silk-inercerh  at  Iwcive,  at  GuiAclitall.  Jan.  21.  John  Wardell;  King's  Lynn,  Norfolk,  gocer  and  vroollen-dmp9r,  at  one,  at  Guildhall,  Landon.  Jan.  21;  Thomas  Beckwith,  i'ornmercial  Road,  coach-  Tanker,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall.  •  Jan.  21.  Wm.  Davis,  Cane-Place,  li..entish-Town,  carpenter,  at  eleven,  at  •  San.  2s.  Jowolt  Broadhurst,  Charing-Cross,  jeweller,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall.  Feb.  4.  James  'Weston,  Pall-Mall,  vipturr,  at  one,  at  Guild Guildhall,  hall, Guildhall,  •  •  11arch  1.  JoAah  Sharpe,  11arket  T)eeping,  Lincolnshire,  linen-draper,  at  one,  at  Guildhall,  London.  Jakl:  24.  :'sleyer  Cohen,  Devotnhiro-street,  Queen  square,  ex exfhange-bro.4er,  fhange-bro.4er, exfhange-bro.4er,  at  twelve,  at  Guildhall,  London.  Jan.  24.  George  IN  etvcoinh,  Bath,  jewellery  at  twelve,  at  Guildhall,  London  :  Jan.  91.  Thnmas  Clough,  Brantley,  clothier,  at  eleven,  at  the  Golden  Lion.  Leeds.  Jan.  25.  Johu  •DtLion,  Levenshulme,  Manchester,  calico calicouier,  uier, calicouier,  at  el...itch,  at  the  Dog  Tavern,  Deans.  manufacturer,  .  rg  Jan.  21.  John  !Markham.  ;jun.  Napton-upon-tte-Ifill,  War Warwick.  wick. Warwick.  shopkerm,  at  eleven,  gt  the  Black  swan  fun.  '  •  Jan.  SO.  James  Makeham,  Upper  Thames-sfreet,  cheese cheeselonger,  longer, cheeselonger,  at  MOO,  at  Guildhall.  Jan.  1().  Margaret  Loinzmire,  Penrith,  Cumberland,  milliner  at  11.,  at  GniWhat!,  London.  Feb.  tf.  Joluri7urteis  . STYLE=superscript  and  :Tohn  Stephens,  Penryn,  Cornwall,  .•  ghopkeeners,'itt.ten,  at  Guildhall.  London.  '  March  Lucas,  Cheapside,  warehouseman,  at  trrelve,  at  t;nildhall.  CEltrivie  I  TEs,  J  21.  Daniel  and  Rithard  Illaehtnrd,  Lonrird-street,  laeemen.--  Thonms  aisworlb,  Blackburn,  ;19hn  11:atson,  John  \Vp.tso,  -  jun.  and  Joseph  Watson,  Preston,  cotton-inamif'acturers.—Ealii:e cotton-inamif'acturers.—Ealii:e-lot  lot cotton-inamif'acturers.—Ealii:e-lot  (:r-Chant,W  l  Aliani  Graham,  and  Thomas  GCaliam,  -..mcrcha'nts.—Joim  Lomas,  sen.  John  Loina  , STYLE=superscript  ,  Jun.  and  .1.  Holds Holds-worth  -worth Holds-worth  f.ninas,  !Alb%  ne,  Exeter,  linen linen  The  Gazette  cotit4ins  a  letter  front  captain  hole,  cif  Ilis  Ma Ma:c'bh  :c'bh Ma:c'bh  ••.:  sloop  the  Eg•iia,  giving-an  account  Of  the  co  wore  of  the  bank!!  schooner  privateer,  Ncosois,  of  v)  guns  and  :Amen  ;  and  atm)  a  letter  from  Capt.  Dunda.c,  of  It  k  *Nlaje,ty's  ship  Nitiad,  state-  the  capture  of  the  French  privateer  brig  4  'at”  . STYLE=superscript  ,  of  16  gulls.  and  SO  (yarn  •  •atal  the  French  slitop  Miperb.  of  4  goo  anti  2ti  Taco,  w.lll  a  caoo  of  sundries  for  Alartinititte.  •  'ftt  OUR  SIIRSCRI  BERS  AND  VIE  PI:  nric.  The  Erp,prietgrs  n  of  Tuc  ATI()  ti  4t.  ni;elsTEl  !  'beg  leave  to  r  Sul.  4  .•  ;  t  bet  . STYLE=superscript  )  a  m]  the  Public  t  llat  aCo3IPR  E:  J11:1  Si  r:  •  f'•  ic  de  •  l  ifep  y,  tr  y  copplete  the  firs!  Volume  vi'  kltis‘  'Paper,  is  in  pre preratv  ratv preratv  001  that  it  is  their  intent  inn  tu  6,:;te  it  on  tinndrig  the  151  It  anuary  ;--rott  which  ilaY  a  Pro  writ  A  rot  r  ttts  MAJESTy  frottl  a  Painting-b  ,  Sir  Beechey  !  , STYLE=superscript  $  • STYLE=superscript  ••;111  4.  klivered  The  Puillie  way  wipect  a  Portrait  worthy  Iteir  acceptance;  arid  whietki  they  trtot,  will  supply  the  imperfections  of  the  :  Print  w  hich  was  givenoog  after  the  commentrmetit  of  the  N  km  NA  L  R.  gulma.  ;~  JAN.  I  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  3Lotibon  4  SUNDAY,  JANUARY  1,  1809.  4  1 STYLE=superscript  0UT1c.41.  A:  VENTS  OP  T  1.114  WE  Dispatches  were  received  on  Friday  from  Adiniral  Dz  i'orincy,  of  the  43d  inst.  frOm  'Corunna.  This  Officer  states  his  having  received  a  communication  from  Sir  DAVID  tiAIRD,  dated  the  17th  inst.  mentioning,  that  he  was  on  ti,,;  point  of  effecting  a  junction  with  Sir  JOHN  MOORE  ;  and  that  he  intended  proceeding  to  the  Head-Quarters  of  the  latter,  which  were  no  rxrere  thati  twenty-three  miles  distant.  It  is  reported  that  this  junction  had  4een  actually  effected.  HOwever,  we  have  the  satisfaction  to  announce,  that  theeneiny  had  not  the  means  of  preventing  .  it,  as:  soon  as  our  Generals  thought  'it  adviiable.  Thci  .  British  line  is  said  to  have  extended,  at  the  date  of  the  dispatches,  from  Toro  to  Benevento;  and  it  has  been  even  rnininired,  that  the  two  armies  ha,4  plished'  forward  to  . STYLE=superscript  Valladolid.  Exclusive  of  .this  agreeablo.  and  long-wished long-wishedfor  for long-wishedfor  intellig_ence,  the  molt  gratifying  accon  . STYLE=superscript  ats•have  been  .  a.  •  ••  reccavcd  relative  to  the,  state  and  spirit  of  the  Army,  wider  the'  command  of•  the  Marquis  De  LA  ROMAN  A,.  which  amounted  to  about  30000  Combatants,  burning  with  a  desire  to  signalize  their  valour  against  the  oppressors  of  their  country.  'lt  was  *daily  ifirreasing  in  numerical  strength  ;  amt  their  gallant  and  patriOlic  leader,  whom  BONAPARTE  honours  with  the  title  of  Traitor,  is  said  to  have  formed  the  bold  resolution  of  pushing  forward  to  Burgos,  and  surprising  there  a  considerable  corps  of  the  enemy.  This  account  may  he'Preinature  but  when  we  reflect  on  the  iutrepidiand•  enterprising  *character  of  that  hrave  Officer,  whU,  in  add'Atieqi  tep;  t  iblic,  has  private  iikju iikjuries  ries iikjuries  to  resent,  we  should  not  he  in  the  least  surprised,  if  he  attempted  so  bold  a  (*m.:de-main.  It  was  stated,  likewise,  yestrday,  that  eti  r STYLE=superscript  r'kallant  Conim4der-in-Chief  in  Spain,  had  manicured  his  operat,ions  with  eclat,  and  had  cut  utr  a  qusidcrable  cords  qthe  energy.  Be  that  •  •  as  it  may,  we  feel  the  most  inexpressible  satisfaction  at  the  contents  of  their  dispatches  ;  and,  whatever  fate  awaits  our  brave  country  Men,  we  may  indulge,  With  confidence,  in  the  exulting.  anticipation,  that  officers  atid  MOW  will  not  only  do  their  dote  r  lint'every  thing  which  the  most'ardent  love  of  their  country',  and,  the  rO  - STYLE=superscript  4,t  heroic  valour  are  capable  of  performing  a  . STYLE=superscript  .  Aid  inspiring.  The  Rubicon  is  now  passed  ;  and  that  is  what  we  always  most  ardently  desired  ;  because  we  know  the  itish  cha character;  racter; character;  and  when  40,000  of  our  countrymen;  brave  as  imagination  would  paint  them,  or  patriotisnt'wish,  are  left  thew  as  pledges  of  the  honour  of  their  country,  we  then  ttutt  Ministers  will  not  leave  them  to  fight  against  ex-.  .tra,vagint  odds  ;  but  vii  pour  °qt  .  vast  re-inforcements  to  the  assistance  of  men,  who  may  be  cutio  pieces,  but  can cannot'harbour  not'harbour cannot'harbour  an  idea  of  flying  or  surrendering.  Wo  implore  them  by  every  thing  which  can  influence  them  as  men  anil  citizens,  to  strain  the  vast  resources  of  this  uawerful  and  willing  . STYLE=superscript  conimunity,  to  out  out  re-Inforceruents  on  that.  .  formi'ikahle  scale,  as  to  spare  their  'co  . STYLE=superscript  :natry  the  grief  of  beeing  40,600  of  her  brayt*  sonsmakiug•  glorious,  hut  us  e  .  less  eftigts  ih  itippen  of  her  reputatioh.  We  are"
