text
"24  ticuce  and  complacency  to  the  overtures  of  a  man,  whom  he  should  have  iustruceed  the  ATTOMY  LY-C  EN  Llt  A  4.  to  pro-  I  secute,  had  he  any  respect  either  for  his  own  character,  or  411te  sanctity  of  his  office,—afibrds  an  alarming  proof,  that  •  e  frequency  of  the  example  has  taken  away  from  the  cri criminality  minality criminality  and  baseness  of  ti  action.  Crimes  against  the  State  are  more  heinotoi,  as  they  are  more  'extensive  in  their  consequences,  than  private  misdemeanours;  yet  in  private  life  a  man  of  common  respectability  would  be  ready  to  -  sink  into  the  very  earth,  would  almost  expire  with  shame,  rief,  and  confusion,  were  he  detected  in  any  fl  agrant  vio violation  lation violation  of  his  engagements  and  duties;  or  convicted  of  tam tampering  pering tampering  with  a  sharper  to  defraud  or  injure  his  employers.  'Che  Minister  who  abuses  his  patronage,  and  converts  it  to  the  injury,  rather  than  benefit,  of  the  State,  is  guilty  of  the  grossest  violation  of  trust  ;  tramples  upon  the  most  sacred  engagements;  defrauds  his  employers,  and  debauches  them  by  his  example  ;—such  a  ftlinister,  we  have  no  hesitation  to  say,  is  ten  thousand  times  more  criminal  than  a  pick pickpocket  pocket pickpocket  or  highwayman,  more  deserving  of  abhorrence  and  punishment.—His  misconduct  greets  millions,  and  is  felt  for  several  generations.  These  are  maxims,  which  cannot  be  too  frequently  or  to  forcibly  inculcated  in  our  time  ;  when  the  very  re-  Verse  of  them  seem  to  regulate  the  conduct,  and  bias  the  principles  of  pubic  men.  The  surest  restraint  on  t  °Utica'  delinquincy  is  severity  of  popular  opinion  ;  and  the  highest  clemency  to  the  community  is  justice  to  offenders.  Strict,  inexorable  impartiality  'on  this  head  is  equally  beneficial  to  the  governing  and  the  governed  ;—it  places  men  in  power  on  their  guard;  reminds  them  incessantly  of  their  duty,  •  ac accompanies  companies accompanies  them,  as  a  severe  hut  useful  Monitor  ,  teaches  them  discretion,  if  it  cannot  inspire  them  with  virtue  ;  is  lan  infallible  antidote  against  the  poison  of  power,  and  pre prevents  vents prevents  those  violent  sanguinary  convulsions,  which  counter counteract,  act, counteract,  and  cast  off,  the  excessive  and  enfeebling  humours  of  despotic  governments  anti  vitiated  constitutiona.  This  un unrelenting  relenting unrelenting  severity  to  offenders  is  a  sacred  duty  the  public  owe  to  their  associates,  as  well  as  successors,  in  Mike  ;  for  it  were  unjustifiable,  even  barbarous,  they  should  be  de deprived  prived deprived  ot  confidence  they  never  forfeited.  Too  unquali unqualitied  tied unqualitied  a  distrust,  too  undiscriminating  a  jealousy  of  every  ROM  vested  with  an  ostensible  employment,  must  ulti ultimately  mately ultimately  ensue  ;  and  the  consequence  is  unavoidable,  that  the  people  will  look,  with  a  jealous,  hostile  spirit,  to  every  measure  of  government  ;  and  thus  the  great  link  of  union  be  dissolved,  which  can  alone  render  the  community  re respected  spected respected  abroad,  and  tranquil  ai,d  prosperous  at.  home.  We  do  not  remember  an  instance  in  the  history  of  this,  or  any  other  country,  where  symptoms  of  a  more  danger dangerous  ous dangerous  fermentation  have  manifested  themselves,  than  arc  vi visible  sible visible  ia  this  moment  in  Great  Britain.  The  highest  reach  of  virtue,  and  a  isdom,  of  conciliation  tempered  with  firm firmne4s,  ne4s, firmne4s,  are  indispeasible,  imperiously  urgent  in  order  to  restore  calm  and  confidence.  Those  who  are  zealous  and  ardent  in  the  detection  of  abuses,  must  be  cautious  that  their  veal  be  not  transported  to  intemperance;  their  love  of  reform,  to  a  passion  for  inno%  ation.  Public  discontent  is  easily  fomented,  but  confined,  with  extreme  &amp;faculty,  with within  in within  due  bounds.  if  it  reach  and  swell  to  a  certain  height  ;  -the  ordinary  barriers  cannot  restrain  it  over overflows  flows overflows  and  effaces  every  trace  of  the  former  amine:valetas.  Intemperate  :11141  violent  resolutions  will  thwart,  et  the  same  time,  every  reasonable  prospect  of  amelioration;  and  sensible,  as  well  as  moderate  men,  will  recoil  ('coin  an  undertaking,  which,  ilnot  calmly  and  prudently  managed,  may  be  productive  of  disorders,  far  more  dangeroes  to  11:e  cause  of  freedom,  thaa  the  abases  which  now  undermine  the  constitution.  The  highest  prudence  and  temper  are,  therefore,  -essentially  reqesiie  ;----  the  wild,  impracticable  reveries  of  the  visionary,  as  a  ell  as  the  frenzied,  disor disorganising  ganising disorganising  projects  of  the  demagegae,  must  be  equally  avoid avoided  ed avoided  in  every  attempt  towards  rational  reform.  efs  ehieh  seldom  fall  to  the  lot  of  humanity,  are  rc rccessiry  cessiry rccessiry  iii  the  in  i•  4111.,  ho  Nl'ollll  bring  this  cris  i STYLE=superscript  s  to  a  ft/ChM/AC  16S!:e  ;  •  titeaequally  11111:011!'e  to  the  deinandi  of  •  •  P2_TB00004"
