text
"No.  62.  POLITICAL  DlSQUisrrioN.  NUM  HER.  •SIXTV.  PUBLIC  AFFAIRS.  The  Charges  against  the  Commander  in  Chief  appeared,  for  some  time,  to  have  excluded  every  other  subject  from  the  public  attention.  Serious  as  these  charges  are;  repulsive  and  afflicting  as  it  must  be  to  every  honest  man  to  see  a  personage  so  nearly  allied  to  the  throne,  and  filling  the  highest  ostensible  situation,  convicted  of  an  association  with  a  vile  woman,  and  accused  of  participating  in  her  ini iniquity,  quity, iniquity,  we  do  not  consider  them,  however,  of  that  exclusive  consequence,  as  to  sacrifice  to  them  every  other  object  of  national  inquiry  and  alarm,  It  may  be  the  interest  of  fac factious,  tious, factious,  or  ►mercenary,  journalists  to  rivet  the  popular  feel feeling  ing feeling  on  a  subject  so  gratifying  to  party-rancour,  and  fa favourable  vourable favourable  to  the  financial  speculations  of  newspaper-pro newspaper-proprietors  prietors newspaper-proprietors  ;  but  we  would  blush  for  ourselves  and  ourcountry  if  we  were  conscious  that  [the  intrigues  of  a  prostitute,  the  weakness  of  her  paramour,  and  the  vices  of  her  despicable  associates,  were  capable  of  diverting  the  vigilance  and  *anxiety  of  the  public  from  the  progress  and  developement  of  that  monstrous  power,  which  has  so  successfully  con conspired  spired conspired  against  the  happiness  and  freedom  of  our  neighbours.  We  feel  on  this  occasion,  we  cannot  disown,  a  most  mor mortifying  tifying mortifying  sensation  to  think  that  any  individual  or  individuals,  among  ourselves,  whatever  their  claims  to  abhorrence  may  be,  should  absoru  and  monopolize  the  general  hatred  and  interest,  when  a  bold,  implacable,  and  savage  enemy,  flushed  with  the  plunder  and  prostration  of  the  continent,  has  already  pronounced  our  own  doom  to  be  irrevocable,  and  is  developing  more  and  more  his  vast  means  of  putting  his  menace  into  execution.  While  such  a  man  is  annexing  every  month  a  new  kingdom,  or  province,  to  the  immense  empire  he  has  created,  whilst  his  followers  enjoy,  in  triumphant  anticipation,  the  plunder  of  the  British  islands,  to  turn  incessantly  the  regards  of  our  readers  on  the  petty  squabbles  and  the  groveling  vices  of  the  wretches  implicated  by  the  late  investigation,  would  betray  equal  inditlerence  to  the  honour  and  safety  of  thecoantry.  We  have  not  been  insensible  to  the  evils  alluded  to  on  that  occasion;  but  the  portentous  storm,  which  is  rapidly  collecting,  and  condens condensing,  ing, condensing,  and  blackening  over  our  heads,  effaces  every  remoter  image  of  danger  and  inconvenience.  When  we  behold  the  glance  of  the  tyger's  eye,  and  see  him  in  the  very  attitude  of  bouncing,  are  we  to  be  terrified  by  the  hum  of  wasps,  and  to  guard  against  their  stings.—Our  very  looks,  when  we  put  ourselves  in  a  posture  of  defence  against  the  fero ferocious  cious ferocious  and  sanguinary  n  o  ister,  are  destruction  to  the  whole  swarm  of  buzzing  and  iiexious  insects.  The  investigation  is  now  finished  ;  and  the  decision  of  oar  representatives  will  soon  follow.  We  have  that  confi confidence  dence confidence  in  their  wisdom  and  integrity,  that,  in  the  unprece unprecedented  dented unprecedented  crisis  in  which  the  country  is  placed,  they  will  main maintain  tain maintain  the  dignity,  virtue,  and  independence  of  the  British  Parliament,—now  the  last  asylum  of  laws  and  rights,—the  le.  IL—Ne.  LXII."
