text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  hen  s  communicated  to  the  people  at  large,  gave  infinite  sails sailsraction.  raction. sailsraction.  About  three  o'klock  os  the  same  day  (the  22d)  the  people  became  again  very  tumultuous,  from  the  idea  that  the,  town  was  betrayed,  and  that  measures  were  secretly  arranged  by  those  at  the  head  of  affairs  for  putting  it  into  the  hands  of  the  enemy.  They  declared  that  nothing  should  satisfy  theM  on  this  head  short  of  a  positive  and  explicit  declaration  from  the  English  themselves,  ou  whose  honour  and  good  faith  they  had  the  most  perfect  reliance,  that  they  would  assist  in  the  defence  against  the  common  enemy.  It  was  requested  pailicutarly,  that  two  British  Officers,  one  of  them  of  the  artillery,  should  inspect  the  forti fortifications,  fications, fortifications,  in  conjunction  with  two  Spanish  Officers,  and  to  super-  Intend  and  direct  the  preparationi  for  defence.  Two  Officers  of  the  description  desired  .waited  accordingly  on  the  governor,  by  the  British  Commander's  orders  ;  and  all  the  Officers  of  the  Bri British  tish British  Staffaccompanied  the  friars  who  Were  most  active  and  had  most  influence  in  keeping  ti*.  people  within  bounds  to  a  balcony,  whence  the  friars  harangued  the  populace,  g  iving  them  every  ass  t  o  ance  of  the  co-:operation  of  the  British  f  orces,  and  the  sup support  port support  of  the  British  nation,  and  frequently  appealed  to  the  Bri  •  tish  Officers  to  confirm  by  their  own  voices  the.  pledges  given  in  their  name  and  their  presence.  This  proceeding  had  'the  effect  of  perfectly  quieting  the  people  for  this  tithe.  They  disperged,  and  retired  to  their  homes,  amidst  loud  visas  in  `favour  of  George  111.  and  Ferdinand  Vii.  and  the  British  and  Spanish  tuitions.  On  the  23d,  a  protlamation  wa  issued  by  the  Governor,  and  the  father  guardian  of  the  Capuchins,  (whose  sanction  was  ne necessary  cessary necessary  to  contirni  the  assttrances  given  in  the  name  of  the  civil  power),  containing  pledges  fogy  the  adoption  of  every  me  sure  desired  by  the  populace  for  the  defence  and  security  of  the  town,  and  promising  the  disolissal  of  several'  ohnoxiotts  persons,  and  rt  partkular  inquiry  into  the  conduct  of  the  Marquis  de  Ville'.  who  was  it,  custody  of  the  Capuchin  friars;  and  secured  eqoally  from  the  populace  and  from  escape  in  their  priory.  resides  the  general,  suspicion  of  a  design  to  betray  the  town  by  means  of  the  introductiea  of  foreign  troops,  the  Marquis  de  Villel  had  ren rendered  dered rendered  himself  personally  ildspected,  by  releasiog  several  of  the  persons  confined  on  the  ground  of  being  attached  to  the  French  Interest.  He  was  reported  to  have  declared,  that  all  others  who  were  confined  for  that  cause  had  only  to  go  through  the  form  of  sending  hitn  a  petition,  to  obtain  the  stunts  induigence.  lie  had  also  interposed  very  injudiciously  in  the  amusenients  of  the  peo  ple,  wl.ich  Leing  always  marked  with  allusions  to  the  cireum cireum!•hiuces  !•hiuces cireum!•hiuces  of  the  present  laniat  ions  to  Ferdinand,  to  'Mer 'Merle;  le; 'Merle;  and  independence,  it  r,  as  suppozsed  that  his  hostility  Was  di directed  rected directed  against  these  acclamations  of  liberty  and  loyalty  in  parti parti:ular.  :ular. parti:ular.  The  Marquis  had  carried  his  interference  in  this  point  so  far  I.s  to  confine  some  ladles  ia  the  'louse  of  !IMfry,  and  to  threaten  others  'with  the  sante  disgraceful  ptinholunent  ;  and  this  outrage  on  respectable  females  rendered  the  people  so  furious  ,a.gtiitist  him,  that  nothing  but  the  veneration  in  which  the  Capuchins  are  held  could:l'ord  him  security.  About  twelve  this  day  the  populate  proceeded  to  the  Castle  of  Santa  Catalina,  and  demanded  the  person  of  General  Canal),  late  second  in  comaiand  of  the  Spanish  troops  employed  in  Por Portugal,  tugal, Portugal,  and  another  prisoner  coutiaed  there,  both  of  whom  they  meant  to  put  to  death.  But  by  the  interposition  of  Colonel  Roche,  who  !lad  just  arrived  from  Se%ille,  and  another  British  Officer,  who  both  addfessed  them  in  Spanish,  and  impressed  them  with  a  tense*  of  the  impropriety  of  such  violent  conduct,  they  desisted.  Shortly  after;  however,  they  seitied  Don  Joseph  lieredia;  who  bad  a  few  hours  before  been  distdissed,  at  their  instance,  from  his  Office  of  Collector  of  the  Ilublic  Rents,  and  killed  him  on  the  spot.  lie  was  just  stepping.  into  a  boat,  to  make  his  escape  to  Port  St.  Mary.  The  rest  of  that  day  passed  Without  any  further  tumult.  Tnutt9DAV,  2C—The  town  appears  very  quiet  this  morning,  and  it  is  hoped  no  further  disturbance  will  take  place,  The  Priests  and  Friars  have  exerted  themse:ves  very  much  to  tran tranquillize  quillize tranquillize  the  people  throughout,  preaching  and  haranguing  in  every  quarter  where  any  di.pusttion  of  violence  was  shewu,  hazarding  their  persons  to  save  the  victims  marked  for  destruc destruction,  tion, destruction,  and  using  all  their  inftttencU  td  restore  peace  and  good  to  der.  4.  Martinique,  the  whole  of  which,  with  the  exeeation  of  Fort  Bourbon,  which  was  expected  to  surrender  in  a  few  d:  v,,,  t%  as  in  our  possession.  The  details  of  the  attack  are  given  at  considerable  length  in  the  Barbudoe  Mercury,  from  which  *e  extract  the  substance  of  the  tolerative.  .  The  Expedition  'Arrive&amp;  toff  - STYLE=superscript  fat  into  * STYLE=superscript  Ntatoinv  the  9.9111  of  January.  tht  the  morning  of  the  :10oh  they  separated  in  tee  divisions,  the  Acosta  hoisting  a  broad  pendant,  and  leading  that  with  the  division  of  the  arms  under  the  Cominaniier  in  Chief  and  Sir  G.  Prevost,  intetided  to  effect  a  landing  in  Bay  Itabert;  while  the  Admiral  flir  A.  Cochrane,  proceeded  with  toot  under  Major  General  Maitland  round  Maran,  and  entered  tae  Bay  of  St  Lore.  •  The  Commander  in  Chief  immediately  issued  a  Proclamation;  inviting  the  inhabitantt  to  submit  immediately  to  his  Majesty's  forces,  holding  out  on  :he  one  hood  the  advantages  they  would  derive  from  quiet  submission,  aad  on  the  other  the  calamity  that  would  arise  front  a  fruitless  resistance;.  In  the  afternotin  of  the:3olli,  the  division  under  the  immediate  command  of  Lieuteaant-Geueral  Beckwith,  effected  a  landing  at  Robert  ;  Sir  G.  Prevost,  aced  Brigadier  General  Iloughtoa,  with  the  first  Brigade,  landed  first,  and  advanced  the  same  evening  some  distance  into  the  country.  This  britrade  consisted  of  the  7th  regiment,  under  Lieuteurant-Colonel  Pilenham,  .23d  under  Lieutenant-Colonel  Ellis,  and  five  tompanies  of  the  West  India  regiment,  under  Lieutenant“7olonel  Tolley,  a  The  second  brigade  led  by  Lieutenant-General  Beck  w  ith,  having  under  him  Brigadier-General  Colville,  consisted  of  the  Sth  regi regiment  ment regiment  under  Major  Matt  Well,  the  lath  under  Lieuteuaot-Colonel  Keane,  and  four  companies  °Nile  Ist  West  India  regiment,  under  the  Major  Clifton.  The  reserve  commanded  by  Lieutenant-  Colonel  Blackwell,  consisted  of  the  3d  battalian  (  . STYLE=superscript  10111  regiment,  tinder  Major  Mackey,  the  flank  companies  of  the'  sth  regiment,  the  Ith  battalion  of  the  601  h,  and  the  4th  West  India  regiment.  Triuity  suiTentlered  on  the  3lst:  The  second  division,  under  the  robitnand  of  Ma'ir-General  Maitland,  also  landed  Oft  the  30th  at  St.  Lute.  The  fc  rst  bri=  Bade,  led  by  Majiar-:leueral  Maitland,  haying  under  him  Lieu.  tenant-Colonel  Barnes,  consisted  of  the  63,1  regiment,  under  Lieutetiatit-ColOnel  Fairtlough;and  York  Rangers;  under  Major  Henderson.  The  second  brigade,  cominanded  hy  Lientrnant.  Colonel  'Real%  consisted  of  the  flank  companies  oho  16.11  and  46111  ren  t•  iments,  under  Major  Payne,  the  14th  regime  .1,  11  ll:ter  :MOW  Davidson,  York  L.  I.  Volunteers,  oad'er  Lie  a.o•,at-  Colonel  Streicher,  told  Sth  W.'.  I.  regithent,  Colonel  Prevost.  The  reserve,  commanded  liy  LiemetWlif•  Culdael  MiNair,.enniisted  of  the  90th  regiment,  Under  Maj:ir  Wright,  and  fld  ‘Vest  India,  on  ler  Major  Alleti.  The  fort  at  Cape  Solomon  was  taken  posSession  of,  and  posi positions  tions positions  were  taken  for  the  purpose  of  at  ITlrk  lug  tt  ith  erekt  Pigeon  Island;  which  held  out  till  the  4th  of  February,  and  then  sur surrendered  rendered surrendered  at  discretion,nearly  sixty  then  on  the  part  or  the  enemy  hating  been  killed  or  wounded  during  the  bombardment.  Five  •  officers  and  ISO  privates  of  the  garrison  surrendered  prisoners  of  war,  and  Were-sent  on  hoard  the  Pompee.  lb  the  m'ean  time  Majtii.4ieneral  Maitland  With  the  main  body  of'  his  division,  advanced  to  La  t STYLE=superscript  rnehtin.  Lieutenant-General  Beckwith  and  Sir  G.  Pfevo  4 STYLE=superscript  t,  proceeded  towards  Bruno  and  Sourrier,  having  frequent  skirmiahes  w  itb  the  enemy  ou  their  march.  On  the  2d  of  February  they  had  a  more  gfaieral  with  the  (nimbi'  in  the  neighbnurhood  of  tiourrier,  a  aheig  ht  whin  h  affords  a  commanding  situation  forattacking  fort  Bow  non.  The  possession  of  this  height  was  olostinatelv  contested  by  the  enemy  for  several  hours.  They  reratedly  charged  'lair  troops,  who,  •as  often  received  them  on  the  point  of  the  bayonet.  'no:  ene  m  y  were  at  length  driven  from  their  position,  and  our  troops  ona•  tained  possession  of  the  height.  The  ss  hole  of  the  detail.  of  this  affair  had  not  -Patted  Ilarbadoes  at  the  last  date  of  these  papers  (the  11th  ult.)  our  los;  ic,  n  howevi  r,  stated  at  12  men  killed  and  240  wounded.  A  flatboat:  the  officers  are,  Captain  Taylor  of  the  7th,  Major  Maxwell  if  the  Bth,  and  Captain  Sinclair,  of  toe  25th,  kilted;  and  I,k-infonaut-Colonel  Packen!mm  of  the  ,to,  Majors  Campbell  anti  Turner  of  the  Royal  West  India  Itai.,,ers,  and  Captain  Gladnanes  of  the  Sd  West  India  I)  twded.  Lieatenant-Greperal  Beckwith  who  led  the  attack,  had  a  anti=  row  escape.  a  soldier  beiag  killed  by  his  side;  The  of  the  enemy  is  stated  at  about  300  men.  After  this  action  .the  enemy  concentrated  the  whole  of  his  force  in  Fort  Wootton.  .Major  •General  Maitland  with  his  ui uivision  vision uivision  moved  from  Lamentin,  round  the  Cul  de  •ill!  de  Cutter.  to  point  Negro  ;  and  Major  /  Henderson,  with.  his  party,  proceeded  by  water  across  Fort  Royal  Bay  dorin  to•  Cass  Naviere,  and  took  a  roaition  on  the  heights  above  it,"
