text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  arms.  Other  accounts  state,  that  it  has  capitulated.  Ilar:e•  lona  is  reported  to  have  surrendered  to  the  English  and  Spaniardg,  after  a  most  destructive  bombardment.  Letters  from  Gijon,  of  the  18th  instant,  state,  that  the  French  had  po  more  than  250  troops  at  Santander;  and,  as  General  lilalustinos  was  advancing  with  5000  men,  it  was  expected  that  the  enemy  would  evacuate  the  place.—  Corunna  Diary  of  the  `29th  December.  TAN.  8.  Ng'twat  History.--There  is  9.  heautiful  little  hawk,  generally  called  a  sparrow-hawk,  but  which,  in  fact,  is  of  a  very  different  species,  being  a  kestrel  or  windhover  (Falca  Tinnuneulus)  now  living,  belonging  to  Mr.  John  King,  of  Buckingham,  which  fre frequently  quently frequently  takes  its  flight,  and  is  absent  fur  several  da  i  s,  a  week  or  two,  or  longer;  when  it  returns  to  the  house,  and  goes  about  as  tamely  as  before.  It  was  taken  from  its  nest,  when  very  young,  in  Jane  1807,  and  bred  up  tame.  Mice  arc  its  favourite  food.  Within  the  last  two  months,  it  has  changed  its  old  plumage  for  a  new  and  much  brighter  one,  being  chiefly  of  a,brick-coloured  red,  embellished  with  elegant  black  tr  i  angu  lar  spots.  A  more  affecting  case  than  the  following  has  seldom  occurred.  The  wife  of  Mr.  Middleton,  a  farmer  at  Winmour,  near  Hesler Heslerton,  ton, Heslerton,  upon  the  Wolds,  in  Yorkshire,  with  her  infant  child,  her  sister,  and  the  housekeeper,  had  been  at  a  farm-house  of  Mr.  Middleton's,  at  some  little•  distance,  and  set  out  on  their  return  home  in  the  afternoon  of  Saturday  se'•nnight.  Two  men  belong— belonging  ing belonging  to  the  farm  had  been  with  Mr.  Middleton  afterwards,  and  told  him  of  the  party  having  left  the  farm,  hut  supposed,  as  the  day  was  stormy,  they  must  have  returned,  with  an  intention  of  stopping  there  for  the  night.  Should  this  not  prove  to  be  the  case,  the  men  proposed  to  go  bark  immediately  to  Mr.  Middle,  ton,  and  inform  him  of  it.  Not  hearing  any  thing  from  them-  Mr.  Middleton  supposed  the  party  'had  returned  and  were  safe.  About  ten  o'clock  at  night,  however,  as  he  was  going  to  look  after  some  sheep  near  the  house,  his'foot  struck  against  some something,  thing, something,  which,  on  examination,  proved  to  be  the  body  of  a  dead  child  ;  and  his  astonishment  and  affliction  may  be  more  easily  conceived  than  expressed,  when  he  found  it  to  be  his  own  and  only  daughter.  On  making  further  search  immediately,  his  wife  and  housekeeper,  and  his  wife's  sister,  were  found  at  a  short  distance,  nearly  lifeless;  the  two  former  are  recovering,  but  his  sister  had  lost  the  use  of  her  limbs,  and  little  hopes  are  entertain entertained  ed entertained  of  her  regaining  the  use  of  them."
