text
"),t.t  .  message  to  the  Senate;  and  none  of  the  private  accounts  from  Holland  allude  to  any  such  communication.  We  will  not  reject  it,  however,  absolutely,  in  consequence  of  this  silence.  But  if  he  has  left  Paris,  and  given  no  notice  to  the  Senate  of  his  intended  departure  ;  if  he  stole  away  clandestinely,  and  in  the  midnight  hour;  if  he  feared.  to  make  an  appeal  to  the  pliable  loyalty  of  that  base  herd  of  slaves  and  sycophants;  if  he  entertained  some  doubts  of  the  sentiments  which  his  good  city  of  Paris  might  express  tm  this  new  prospect  of  carnage  and  bloodshed  :  then  we  will  say,  that  hig  hopes  are  mit  so  o.anguine  as  they  had  been  in  the  last.  wars  with  Austria  and  Prussia;  or  previous  to  his  projected  invasion  of  Spain.  Whatever  favourable  forebodings  we  may  entertain  ourselves,  or  however  ar ardently  dently ardently  we  may  hail  tlie  dawn  of  a  better  day  for  Europe,  and  execrate  the  lawless  ambition  of  the  ruffian  who  builds  the  edifice  of  his  aggrandizement  on  the  ruins  of  freedom,  public  and  private  happiness,  we  still  feel  an  unusual  dejee=  Lion,  when  we  reflect  on  the  disasters  which  may  Occur.  It  is  their  last  stake  which  the  nations  on  the  Continent  are  going  to  lay  down.  Should  that  be  lost  I..should  every  hope  of  freedom  be  extinguished  for  ever!..should  a  mili military  tary military  despotism;  the  most  odious,  the  most  insolent;  th  e  most  harassing,  that  eve  r  .  afihicted  our  earth;  rule,  with  brutal  nncontrouled  caprice,  and  stifle  in  its  birth  every  generous  sentiment  !  The  lite  of  a  solitary  ruffian  weighed  against  the  happiness  and  independence  o  f  the  present  ge generation  neration generation  !—These  are  reflections;  which  are  capable  of  in intimidating  timidating intimidating  the  most  undaunted,  of  depressing  the  most  ar ardent  dent ardent  of  us  all.  We  Shall  now  ekaMinewhat  policy,  unde  r  these  circum circumstances,  stances, circumstances,  is  must  coufornu  ible  to  the  interests  of  Great  Bri Britain.  tain. Britain.  Our  sentiments  in  favour  of  energetic  measures;  have  been  so  often  declared,  that  they  must  lie  pretty  familiar  to  oae  Readers  at  pt•esent;  And  the  moat  drivelling  place=  man  must  now  confess  that  if  BONAPARTE  succeeds  in  his  bast  system  of  conquest,  the  situation  of  this  country  he hetomes  tomes hetomes  pre-eminently  dangerous.  With  the  resources  of  Europe  at  the  absolute  controul  of  the  vigilant,  restless,  inexorable  tyrant;  and  ni)  other  enemy  to  contend  with  but  with  us,  nothing  less  than  a  miracle  can  preserve  our  beloved  and  happy  country  from  the  general  wreck.  For  us  the  last  cup  of  his  vengeance  is  reserved,  and  should  he  sgcceed,  we  must  drink  it  dregs  and  all.  Whatever  Iv Iv&amp;my,  &amp;my, Iv&amp;my,  in  its  worst  and  most  hideous  form,  has  invented  ;  whatever  inveterate  malice  is  capable  ot'sugge4ting  ;  or  un unbridled  bridled unbridled  rapine,  furious  hate,  and  long  repressed  vengeance  can  inspire,  will  be  indicted  on  us  'With  a  keenness  of  refine refine-nicht  -nicht refine-nicht  and  torturefroth  which  demons  themselves  would  recoil.  It  is  unnecessary,  therefore,  to  allude  to  the  advantage  we  must  derive  from  the  independence  of  Austria.  No  sa-  Ofice,  were  it  even  of  half  our  wealth,  would  helot)  much,  could  it  secure  that  desirable  result.  To  say  that  Nye  cannot  contribute  powerfully  to  that  effect,  both  in  men  and  money,  betrays  that  fatal,  dastardly  Selfishness,  to  which  we  have  no  hesitation  m  attributing  the  calami calamities  ties calamities  of  nations:  But  it  may  be  inquired  where  these  troops  I.,tre  to  be  employed  In  Holland,  Brabant,  and  in  Italy  ;  where  there  is  not  an  individual  who  does  not  execrate  French  tyranny.  But,  for  Heaven's  sake,  none  of  our  neat  little  expeditions  !  A  large  force  of  60,000  men  ought  to  be  immediately  collected  and  encamped  on  the  Kentish  coast,  with  transports  sufficient  for  their  convey conveyance..  ance.. conveyance..  The  very  aspect  of  such  a  formidable  armament  'will  either  coMpel  BONAPARTE  to  retain  an  equal  force  for  the  defence  of  the  menaced  points,  and  thus  diirinish  his  means  of  attack  against  Austria  ;  or  he  must  yield  to  the  necessity  of  abandoning  these  important  acquisitions  to  their  fate.  A  revolution  in  Brabant  or  Holland,  where  the  detestation  of  the  tyrant  is  greater  and  more  inveterate  than  in  any  other  country  on  the  Continent,  would  shake  to  its  very  basis  the  immense  colossus  of  his  power.  It  is  the  very  excess  of  pusillanimity  and  error  to  main.  tail)  that  we  have  no  chance  of  contending  successfully  on  the  Coutiucut.  Were  it  possible,  bud  we  see  no  reason  147  why  it  should  not,  to  disembark  a  hundred  thousand  British  soldiers  in  Holland,  the  hest  hearted  and  the  best  discielincd  in  the  universe,  we  might  secure  for  ever  the  independence  of  Europe.  No  force  which  BONAPARTE  could  bring  to  hear  upon  us,  were  he  invoked  with  Austria  and  Spain,  could  make  a  momentary  stand  against.  such  an  army.  Ignorance  and  impudence  .have  centupled  the  resources  of  the  enti►i►y;  but  we  know,  from  a  long  sojourn  in  the  midst  of  the  French  armies,  that  his  military  fotce  is  nut  half  se  great  as  it  is  generally  represented."
