text
"THIS'  IN  1  1 STYLE=superscript  1111111'.3  irißriltelTlßß  IQI  Here,  as  his  Royal  Highness  observed,  when  vainly  soliciting  military  promotion  among  his  conntrvruen,  were  soon  seep  those  advantages  which  his  example  might  produce  far,  the  Prince's  says  the  account  of  the  Institution,  drew  the  attention  of  Sir  TIiOSIAS  NEWTON,  Esq.  repre representative  sentative representative  of  Sir  Is  Asc  NEWTON  ;  the  great  philosopher,  hav having  ing having  no  descendants.  At  the  age  of  eighty-six,  he  exclaimed,  with  enthusiasm,  This  is  the  Institution  for  the  Representa Representative  tive Representative  of  NEWTON  !'  and  he  bequeathed  his  property  to  the  Lite Literary  rary Literary  This  extension  of  his  ROYAL  HIGHNESS'S  patro patronage  nage patronage  was  no  less  politic  than  princely.  W  bile  others  arc  per persecuting  secuting persecuting  literature  in  its  professors,  let  him,  by  fostering  its  cause,  generously  s:  -Lire  its  attachment.  Easiness  seems  time  principal  defect  in  his  ROY  A  L  H  IGH•  NESS'S  character.  His  virtues  arc  his  errors.  It  would  not  he  dill  - STYLE=superscript  16H  to  illustrate  this  position  by  facts  ;  but  the  elucidation  would  prove  too  painful  to  certain  inlivifinals,  and  he  cannot  himself  be  insensible  to  the  justice  of  the  remlirk.  He  cannot  have  fs:rgotten  all  family  oppositions,  readily  followed  up  by  unmerited  forgivenesses  ;  nor  can  Ise  have  obliterated  from  his  mind  all  recollection  of  the  unprincipled  defreion  he  ex  perk  enced  during  the  public  discussion  of  his  claims  to  military  command  !  Separate  thyself  from  thy  says  the  wise  man,  and  take  heed  of  thy  Britain,  whatever  are  his  defects,  ought  to  be  proud  of  the  real  character  of  the  present  Prince  of  W  A  LEs.  His  errors,  which  are  apparent,  will  be  found,  if  candidly  estimated,  more  than  counterbalanced  by  the  general  and  acknowledgsd  excellencies  of  his  disposition.  His  personal  accomplishments  have  obtained  him  universal  admiration,  and  his  mental  acqui acquisitions  sitions acquisitions  are  highly  respectable.  He  loves  his  country,  without  the  least  alloy  of  continental  prepossession;  and,  while  he  sin sincerely  cerely sincerely  respects  the  political  privileges  of  the  People,  he  will,  if  it  be  the  designation  of  Providence,  prove  himself  to  he  deeply  sensible  of  the  great  duties  inseparable  from  the  Monarch.  Feb'  10,  1809.  ONESIMUS•  IMPERIAL  PARLIAMENT.  lIOCSE  OF  LORDS.  TUESDAY,  1?  Ea.  1.  •  THE  DUKE  OF  YORK.  The  Duke  of  Kent  said,  that  observing  an  imprevion  had  gone  abroad  respecting  a  daerence,  suppw•eil  to  subsist  between  the  Commander  in  Chief  and  himself;  he  wished  thus  publicly  to  state,  that.  however  there  might  have  been  a  professional  (lir.  fei%.nce.  there  was  no  schism  between  them,  there  was  no  schism  in  tit:,  regarded  the  Commander  in  Chief  with  the  feelings  of  a  friend  and  a  brother,  and  he  wished  to  give  him  every  possible  support.  lie  was  firmly  convinced  that  the  Com Commander  mander Commander  in  Chief  was  quite  incapable  of  the  conduct  imputed  to  I  him.  ST  NTS  Or  TJLF  Nartos.  Earl  On  oSV  EN  11.  WOUid  observe  aS  a  preliminary,  that  it  their  Lordships  should  accede  to  the  motion,  and  it  should  ap appear  pear appear  upon  the  inquiry  which  must  then  take  place,  that  his  Ma*  jestv's  Ministers,  had,  by  their  misconduct,  disappointed  the  hopes  and  expectation;  of  the  nation,  he  should  then  follow  it  up  by  a  motion  to  addre-s  his  :%lajesty  to  ditamiss  them  from  his  confidence  and  Councils.  It  had  been  sail,  that  tht  re  existed  st  conspiracy  to  write  down  illustrious  persons,  and  to  wilte  down  the  Constitution;  he  did  not  know  that  any  such  eonspiracy  ex existed,  isted, existed,  but  he  was  aware  that  most  improlser  paragraphs  had  ap appeared  peared appeared  in  some  of  the  public  innrhals.  Ile  trastel,  that  the  licentiousness  of  the  Press  could  ho  restrained  by  the  existift  laws,  and  that  no  attempt  would  btu  m:ote  to  Mu-wince  any  new  law  to  curtail  the  Liberty  of  the  upon  which  rested  sto  much  of  the  freedom  of  the  people.  The  illation  of  L  tit  Ciao  EN  or.  aS  negatived  w  ithout  a  I)uri'.i  a  disett.-4ion  of  it,  however,  Loan  ELDON,  its  the  Earl  hal  thoul.,ht  pcorr  to  advert  to  Lithrtg  of  the  Pecs  ,  ,  tank  the  occa  , STYLE=superscript  ion  of  expre;siag  his  opinion,  that  the  /me,  113  it  at  1  ,-,  0  c  rate  :  vat  t  4  curb  its  ii iimiliousness,  miliousness, iimiliousness,  pcJvided  it  was  duly  LORD  ERSICINS  P3_TB00013 ,  i  , STYLE=superscript  •  .  i!  1  1  1  1;1  , STYLE=superscript  1  i  1  0  111  ,  .  ,  1  ,  ~  ,  ,  ...  ,  ,  11  t.'i  i  '  1  1 STYLE=superscript  i  1..'  ‘1  '  0  '  .  .  11  , STYLE=superscript  1  4  i  .1: STYLE=superscript  ....  ,  i  t  •.,  4  :  4 STYLE=superscript  '  A  I  '..  : STYLE=superscript  I  .  t STYLE=superscript  r  1  .  ,  I  4  i  )  ••  I STYLE=superscript  :  '  1..  /  i  i STYLE=superscript  l)  i.'  •••  /  4  •  i  4,,  •  -:  i  S  .  -  .  i,  •  ~  s  :  ,  4  ,  1i...  .  ~  ,  ,  ,..r  ,  .  .....,  ,,,,.  ..,  ,  ,1.:a  I;1,..  ~  ..  1  '  .  •  ,  .  it  ~.4  t STYLE=superscript  ‘.1.1  1  °:  i  i  ~..ty  :::  .  ....  '  l  .  ..•  41.,  2.  .  i  •.04  It  ' STYLE=superscript  '  '  .  •  '  .  '  k  i  '  4  -°-  I  l'  1  , STYLE=superscript  ,'  )  f  t STYLE=superscript  :  I STYLE=superscript  •  4  .  itijoi.  P3_TB00014 li"
