text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  114  the  charges  against  him  are  well-founded.  tint  the  exan,s  ple  of  so  illustrious  a  personage,  and  so  nearly  allied  to  tilt•  throne,  arraigned  at  the  bar-of  his  country,  will  el:wince  the  nations  of  - STYLE=superscript  the  world  of  the  impartiality  of  our  laws,  of  the  practical  excellency  of  our  institutions.  With  what  admiration  will  Europe  read  the  proceedings  of  the  present  House  of  Commons  !  There  is  not  an  honest  man,  from  the  banks  of  the  Wolga  to  the  Streights  of  Gibraltar,  who  will  not  say,  an  assembly  is  worthy  of  a  free  peo people,  ple, people,  and  if  other  nations  possessed  similar  tribunals  to  re•  strain  the  vices  of  their  Generals  and  Ministers,  they  would  not  now  writhe  under  the  odious  despotism  of  Bonaparte  and  the  galling  exactions  of  his  .  These  are  our  motives  fur  glorying  in  the  investigation.  It  is  so  cheering  a  reflection  to  think  one's  country  stands  •  high  in  the  estimation  of  other  states;  and  the  idea  is  still  .  more  exhileratinv  s  .  to  know  that  it  deserves  it..  The  charges  against  his  Royal  Highness  accuse  him  of  having  made  the  most  unjustifiable  use  of  his  influence  as  Commander  in  Chief;  and  they  are  supported  by  the  corroborating  evi evidence  dence evidence  of  several  witnesses.  And  for  what  purpose,  and  for  'whom,  is  he  said  to  have  violated  the  duties  of  his  of office  fice office  ?  Good  God  !  we  would  blush  to  mention  it.  A  Prince  et  the  blood,  the  Commander  in  Chief  of  the  Army,  in  rank  the  third  person  in  the  British  empire,  basking  iii  the  favour,  and  living  on  the  smiles  of  a  *****.  For  shame  !  for  shame!  we  can  never  believe  it.  The  idea  is  too  extravagant.  The  letters  arc  unquestionably  fictitious.  Absent  on  the  exercise  of  his  professional  duties,  his  mind  impressed  with  the  important  services  the  troops  he  was  reviewing.,  might  be,  from  day  to  day,  called  to  perform  in  defence  of  their  very  homes—he  could  find  leisure,  or  have  the  inanity  of  fteling,  to  write  these  nauseous  ex expressions  pressions expressions  of  love,  admiration,  and  eternal  constancy  !  'There  is  no  (haste  zephyr  would  waft  such  sighs;  there  is  no  soldier  would  breathe  them  for  such  an  object.—  Dear!  dear  !  Dear  what  dear  !  what  can  the,mat the,matter  ter the,matter  be  ?  True,  something  must  be  the  matter  with  the  head  and  heart  of  the  prince,  or  the  man,  who  could  write  in  that  nauseous  strain,  and  on  such  an  occasion,  to  the  intimate  friend  of  Mr.  I)owler,  and  the  associate  of  Donovan.  In  point  of  composition,  pathos,  and  delicacy  gdfeelilg,  these  letters  are  near  akin  to  the  Corporal's  love  epistle  which  Lefevre  brought  Sterne  when  in  Paris,  as  the  model  of  an  elegant  note  to  Madame  B  .  .  .  and  for  pomposity  and  ardour,  would  cut  no  indifferent  figure  in  the  grand  burlesque  of  n  n  Thumb.  The  Courier  says  the  Duke  of  York  must  be  brought  to  trial.  Unquestionably  he  must.  The  charges  are  too  grave,  too  positive,  to  admit  of  an  alternative.  No  power  upon  earth  can  now  acquit  him  in  any  other  mode,  though  we  wish  the  laws  of  his  country  and  his  conscience  may.  It  would  be  the  most  cruel  injustice,  and  an  act  of  the  most  barbarous  outnige  against  the  accusf'd,  were  thevoceed thevoceedins  ins thevoceedins  to  terminate  without  the  forina:i'  v  of  a  trial.  Shall  the  Duke  of  York  be  deprived  of  the  b  , STYLE=superscript  :nefit  of  those  laws  Ivhich  is  granted  to  the  most  fla!;itiowz  culprit?  Shall  an  impression  go  abroad  that  favour  or  power  screened  him  horn  censure,  for  the  gross  offences  which  arc  imputed  to  him?  Shall  his  character  he  left  naked  and  defenceless  to  •  the  poisoned  shafts  -of  malignity,  to  the  random  shot  of  ,indiscretion  !  The  men  who  would  advise  it  are  no  friends  to  his  Royal  nor  to  their  country,  and  are  un unaitiestionably  aitiestionably unaitiestionably  none  to  the  Douse  of  Brunswick.  •  A  trial  must,  therefor  - STYLE=superscript  e,  be  instituted,  to  rescue  the  accused  •from  groundless  suspicion,  and  to  avoid  the  painful  consequences  4ofpelilibn  on  the  part  of  the  country  !  Shall  calumny  rear  lier.crested  head,  and  boldly  and  openly  stalk  from  county  to  county,  casting  about  torches  of  discord,  spreading  disaffection,  and  underminino..  the  attachment  of  the  public  •to  the  present  establishment.  The  men  who  would  advise  any  other  mode  of  proceeding  are  the  real  Jacobins,  arc  -conspirators  against  the  throne  and  the  people.  An  intimation,  it  is  said,  has.  been  given  from  a  ccrlain  quarter,  to  certain  persons  high  in  office,  to  interfere  more  pointedly  and  decidedly  in  the  pending  investigation.  A  •stiore  pernicious  ciercise  of  authority,  or  11101  V  fatal  to  FEB.  10.  the  tranquillity  of  the  country,  or  more  detrimental  to  the  interests  of  the  Commander  in  Chic),  could  not  have  been  -suggested.  We,  therefore,  reject  this  rumour,  as  conveying  an  unjustifiable  opinion  of  a  personage  we  are  in  the  habit  of  revering,  and  implying  an  uaconstitutioual  influence  where  it  should  not,  and  o  .ght  not,  to  be  exerted.  His  Royal  Highness  must  be  brought  to  trial  ;  anu  any  man,  who  opposes  it  in  this  awful  crisis  of  our  affairs,  is  a  dangerous  egotist,  indifferent  to  the  houodr  or  existence  of  the  empire.  This  impartiality  will  silence  secret  murmurs,  and  stifle  discontent,  which  would  brood  in  private  over  the  supposed  injustice.  This  is  no  fit  season  for  trying  the  dangerous  experiment  of  relaxing  public  morals,  and  tam tampering  pering tampering  with  the  laws.  The  laws,  said  the  heythian  ANA ANACHARMS,  CHARMS, ANACHARMS,  are  cobwebs,  which  catch  flies,  but  are  broken  by  wasps.  For  God's  sake,  let  not  this  imputation  be  attach attached  ed attached  to  ours,'which  have  excited,  till  now,  the  admiration  of  the  philosopher,  and  the  wonder  of  oilier  nations.  We  ex exult,  ult, exult,  we  repeat  it  once  more,  in  the  present  investigation,  it  is  the  first  step  towards  a  radical  reform,  and  the  axe  is  al already  ready already  laid  at  the  root  of  abuses.  Enough  has  come  out  to  spew  that  they  exist  to  an  alarming  degree  ;  and  hie  pub public  lic public  begin  to  lay  that  servile  and  dangerous  complaisance  aside,  which  arose  out  of  the  excesses  of  the  French  Revo Revolution.  lution. Revolution.  The  applause  bestowed  on  Mr.  WARDLE  for  his  manly  and  patriotic  conduct,  will  create  emulation  ;  and  all  the  recesses  of  venality  will  be  explored  with  a  prying  inquisitorial  eye.  Jobbers,  contractors,  minions,  an,i  mis mistresses  tresses mistresses  may  have  cause  to  complain  of  the  projected  refisrm,  and  cry  down  the  supporters  of  it  as  jacobins  and  conspi conspirators  rators conspirators  ;  but  the  slang  of  these  associates  is  now  intelligible  to  the  public;  and  Jacobin,  in  their  cant  phraseology,  sig signifies  nifies signifies  a  well-  intentioned,  zealous,  and  disinterested  ft:cud  of  the  constitution.  Anether  reason  why  we  feel  an  incli inclination  nation inclination  to  rejoice  at  the  proceedings  of  the  Committee,  is,  that  they  will  enable  the  present  and  future  administra administrations  tions administrations  to  act  with  more  freedom  and  energy.  There  existed  a  fatal  clog  on  the  exertions  of  the  Ministry  of  the  eity,  and  to  that  cause  we  may,  perhaps,  attribute  the  disasters  of  the  Spaniards;  and  our  own  late  reverses  ;led  disgrace.  What  they  projected,  and  wished  to  be  carried  into  execu execution,  tion, execution,  was  marred  by  the  jealousy  and  disaprointed  ambi ambition  tion ambition  of  a  single  individual.  Fired  with  an  inordinate  desire  to  conduct  a  numerous  army  into  Spain,  and  suffering  the  mortification  of  having  his  wishes  frustrated  by  the  decided  opposition  of  the  public,  and  the  independent  part  of  the  Ministry,  (their  names  are  su  ffi  ciently  known),  he  felt,  we  are  afraid,  too  strong  an  inclination  to  prefer  his  resent resentments  ments resentments  to  the  interests  as  well  as  honour  of  the  Common Commonwealth.  wealth. Commonwealth.  The  courier  of  Friday  last  contains  a  report  that  the  office  of  Commander  iu  Chief  will  be  immediately  put  in  commission,  in  the  same  manner  as  the  Office  of  Lord  High  Admiral  has  been  since  the  reign  of  Queen  ANNE.  We  sincerely  and  ardently  wish  this  report  were  trek  ;  for  then,  and  only  then,  can  we  look  to  the  same  brilliant  services  from  the  army,  as  from  the  navy.  Whatever  the  talents  of  the  present  Commander  in  Chief  arc,  however  great  his  activity  and  assiduity  may  be,  nobody  will  deny  but  his  talents  and  exertions  are  inadequate  to  the  complete  per performance  formance performance  of  the  great  duties  which  the  vast  increase  of  our  military  force  imposes  on  film.  Ile  may  possess  all  the  genius  and  discernment  of  a  TiLtaLtionorGa,  with  the  ad administrative.  ministrative. administrative.  talents  of  a  CARNOT,  and  he  still  singly  incapable  of  the  discharge  of  all  the  duties  annexed  to  this  important:  office.  It.  is  too  much,  and  too  complicated,  for  the  exertions.of  one  person,  and  requires  a  mass  and  variety  of  talents  and  knowledge,  to  give  it  th4t  vigour,  life,  and  perfection,  which  our  Navy  go  incomparably  pos possesses.  sesses. possesses.  The  British  Navy  !—There  is  not  an  Englishman,  Whose  heart  does  not  exult  at  the  very  name  I  It  conveys  the  image  of  victory  and  safety,  unblemished  by  a  single  reverse.  But  our  army,  though  compostd  of  the  same  mettle,  and  equally  - STYLE=superscript  brave,  from  Some  mismanagement,  or  latent  defect  in  its  erganisation,  or  incapacity  of  the  Com Commander  mander Commander  in  Chief,  has  frequently  disapp  'ted  the  lw-  of  the  country.  I  P2_TB00010 ppoitited  the  hopes  of  Pi  P2_TB00011 v"
