text
"JAN.  •1.  Since  be  thus  discards  all  pretensions  to  literary  circum circumspection,  spection, circumspection,  it  is  not  so  astonishing,  as  otherwise  it  would  be,  to  hear  him,  while  striving  to  fathiliarise  the  mysteries  of  our  religion,  talk  of  depths  that  would  drown  a  with  rivulets  running  to  the  main  river,  which  a  lamb  might  wade  with  safety.'  And,  adding,  with  the  most  marvellous  expression  of  how  surprising  does  the  Bible  explain  these  matters!  what  a  wonderful  book  is  the  Let  him  take  full  credit  to  himself,  however,  for  the  species  of  ability  he  generally  displays  in  the  pulpit.  He  has  the  knack  of  arresting  the  regard  of  the  commonalty,  and  then  obtaining  their  immediate  at attentiom.  tentiom. attentiom.  He  is  unequalled  in  the  faculty  of  religious  ec ecceniricity.  ceniricity. ecceniricity.  His  stories  are  always  intelligible;  and  his  jokes  are  jokes  of  the  heart.  Mr.  Hill  entertains  so  much  sovereign  contempt,  Such  '  dignified  detestation,  as  I  before  stated,  for  any  oratory  partaking  either  of  l  he  sounding  or  the  tinkling  and  he  seems  so  anxiously  to  avoid  even  the  judicious  admixture  of  both,  that  it  is  by  no  means  easy  to  ascertain  to  what  genus  of  eloquence  his  preaching  belongs.  Ills  voice  is  now  either  so  broken  as  to  render  his  enunci enunciation  ation enunciation  indistinct,  so  tremulous  as  to  be  scarcely  audible,  or  so  painfully  raised  as  to  resemble  hooting.  He  may,  how  , STYLE=superscript  ever,  be  estimated  by  one  cannon  of  santiloquence,  if,  as  another  reverend  gentleman  (Mr.  Blake,  of  the  Adelphi  Chapel)  asserts,  46 STYLE=superscript  No  one  is  fit  for  a  Spiritual  Shepherd  Who  does  not  possess  a  good  whistle,  to  whistle  the  sheep  into  the  such  be  the  case,  then  is  the  Bev,  itow itowlind  lind itowlind  Hill,  most  clearly,  in  point  of  or  lungs,  supereminently  qualified  to  discharge  the  laborious  duties  of  the  spiritual  sheepfold.  There  is  another  qualification  by  which,  it  should  seem,  C  llr.  Hill  is  entitled  to  the  distinction  of  being  a  proper  64 STYLE=superscript  spiritual  Following  the  example  of  the  r  gal  shepherd  of  antiquity,  he  bears  about  with  him  his  ;  whence  (again  according  to  Mr.  Blake)  the  true  Shepherd  must,  as  did  the  Champion  of  Goliath,  be  conti continually  nually continually  at  the  enemies  of  his  flock  !  Mr.  11111,  then,  is  most  employed  in  thus  flinging  or,  speaking  less  metaphorically,  ill  scaring  and  routing  sinners;  Without  considering,  that  all  human  hearts  are  not  equally  obdurate—but  that,  while  many  ate  to  be  as assailed  sailed assailed  by  terror,  Still  numbers  require  to  be  allured  by  mercy.  Moses  may  denounce,  and  deter;  but,  it  is  for  Jesus  to  conciliate  and  convert  •  Is  it  impossible  to  dissuade  Mr,  Hill  from  extravagantly  pursuing  a  system  of  preaching,  of  which  the  beneficial  effects  are  extremely  doubtful  ?---Cannot  he  be  familiar,  without  being  funny  ?  Must  illustration  be  necessarily  ir irreverential  reverential irreverential  ?  His  conduct  has  done  incalculable-mischief.  I  know  not  how  many  an  S.  S.  and  N.  C.  we  owe  to  his  ex example  ample example  ;  men  who,  either  as  to  ability  or  integrity,  are  not  worthy  of  being  associated  with  Mr.  Hill,  even  sts  the  .  hewers  of  wood  and  drawers  of  to  the  temple  of  re religion.  ligion. religion.  What  ambition  can  lie  find  in'  being  looked  up  to  as  the  head  of  story-telling  and  stamping  preachers,  of  evangelical  eccentrics,  of  pulpit  buffoons  ?  1  forbear  expatiating  oh  his  frequent  invectives  against  regular  cler clergymen,  gymen, clergymen,  and  his  ill-dissembled  confidence  in  his  own  preaching.  While  it  is  incumbent  on  me  not  to  conceal  the  defects  of  Mr.  Hill,  let  his  merits  obtain  honourable  mention.  if  he  did  not  evince  more  than  ordinary  talents,  he  would  not  have  called  forth  the  strictures  I  have  felt  it  necessary  to  snake  concerning  him.  Ile  possesses  a  strong  reasoning  mind.  TTe  readily  seizes  the  prominent  bearings  of  his  subject,  fixes  them  in  the  clearest  point  of  view,  and  is  easily  apprehended  by  his  auditory.  His  addresses,  as  they  seem  to  flow  from  the  fervour  of  feeling,  often  strongly  affect  the  feelings  of  those  to  whom  they  are  directed;  and  the  very  tremuloes tremuloespess  pess tremuloespess  of  his  under-tones  contributes,  at  times,  to  solemnize  the  minds  of  the  people.  His  action,  though  too  frequent frequently  ly frequently  ludicrously  distorted,  is,  when  occasionally  lie  places  his  hand  on  the  sconce.  of  the  pulpit,  really  graceful  and  high highly  ly highly"
