text
"6V  Itispersonal  appearance,  when  in  the  pulpit,  is  awfully  impressive.  His  voice  beim.;  constitutioually  deep  ant;  sonorous,  be  gives  his  text  boldly  and.distinctly  ;  and  his  emphasis,  without  being  forced,  is  always  marked.  His  style  of  composition  is  entitled  to  the  highest  cotaimenda cotaimendation.  tion. cotaimendation.  _  _  Earnest,  intelligent,  animated,  his  appeals  to  the  hearts  and  consciences  of  his  hearers  are  delivered  feelingly,  and  with  an  irresistable  efficacy.  His  positions  are  bound,  h.s  illustrations  arc  natural  and  striking,  and  his  reasoning,  admirably  conducted,  is  gradually  convincing  and  finally  conclusive.  I  particularly  comtnend  in  him  the  citation  o'  scriptural  authority  for  what  he  advances.  Whether  it  be  to  elucidate  the  sulAime  doctrines  of  our  religion,  or  to  corroborate  his  own  views  of  their  scope  and  tendency,  his  practice  is  in  this  respect  deserving  of  universal  imitation  among  christian  teachers.  Sincerely  as  1  am  induced  to  approve  the  conduct,  and  sespett  the  abilities  of  Mr.  Crowther,  I  must,  nevertheless,  be  perMitted  to  object  to  the  manner  in  which  he  is  accus accustomed  tomed accustomed  to  close  the  scene  of  public  devotion,  Instead  of  continuing  kneeling,  at  the  termination  of  the  prayer  after  sermon,  he  should,  as  I  conceive,  then  rise,  and  stand  up,  conspicuously  to  his  congregation,  and  so  pro pronounce,  nounce, pronounce,  with  dignity  no  less  than  affection,  the  priestly  benediction  t  He  is  not  now  beseeching  a  blessing  for,  but  imparting  one  to,  the  people.  Ile  does  not  entreai,  it  on  their  behalf—he  cbinmunicates  it,  as  it  were,  to  them,  by  virtue  of  the  authoriq  with  which  he  is  supposed  to  be  di divinely  vinely divinely  entrusted.  It  is  among  the  most  solemn  and  sub sublime  lime sublime  acts  appertaining  to  the  ministry  of  our  holy  religion.  Mr.  Crowther  affords  +  n  ►e  uncxceptionable  exemplifica exemplification  tion exemplification  of  the  union  of  two  supposedly  opposite  characters.  While  he  is  a  good  parish  priest,  he  is  also  an  admirable  popular  preacher.  His  life  is  a  lesson  to  his  flock,  and  his  talents  are  an  honour  to  his  chu,  th.  The  sphere  of  his  duties  is,  I  even  fear,  too  arduous  fir  his  health.  lie  is  not  that  servant  -who,  when  his  lord  tometh,  will  be  found  neglectful  of  his  post  ;  but  one  who,  having  been  faithful  to  his  trust,  may  look  forward  with  exultation  to  his  The  harvest  truly  is  great;  but  the  la labourers  bourers labourers  are  few  :  pray  ye,  therefore,  the  Lord  of  the  Harvest,  that  he  would  send  forth  labourers  into  his  har harvest  vest harvest  according  to  St.  Luke,  ch.  10,  v.  2.  January  20,  1809.  Os•Esinrs.  ***  POPULAR  PREACHERS  (No.  251  for  Sunday  next,  January  the  29th.—Rev.  HENRY  DRAPER,  D.  D.  of  SPA SPAFIELDS  FIELDS SPAFIELDS  CHAPEL.  NAUTICAL  INTLLLIGENCE.  LOSS  OF  THE  CRESCENT.  The  following  is  an  Extract  of  a  Letter,  received  at  Portsmouth  on  Sunday,  front  Mr.  Thomas  Mason,  late  Clerk  of  his  Majesty's  ship  Crescent,  relative  to  the  melan melancholy  choly melancholy  lo4s  of  that  ship.  We  give  it  publicity  for  the  satin--  faction  of  the  friends  of  the  survivors,  and  to  terminate  the  dreadful  state  of  susl►ence  in  which  many  must  be  on  the  occasion.  On  the  sth  inst.  (Dec.)  we  struck  on  the  coast  of  Jut Jutland,  land, Jutland,  near  liobsnout,  and  completely  wrecked,  with  the  WWI  of  '220  people.  The  survivors,  60  in  number,  were  saved;  the  major  part  on  a  raft,  the  remainder  in  the  jolly jollyboat.  boat. jollyboat.  Our  situation  was  truly  dreadful,  even  worse  than  at  the  old  ship's  (Anson)  loss.  We  have  been  removed  from  Robsnout  to  this  place  (Aalborg).  in  waggons,  about  32  miles.  We  have  as  yet  been  treated  very  *ell—expect  soon  to  be  released.—F.  U.--  and  I  are  confined  together.  We  have  to  console  ourselves  by  expectation  of  speedily  secmng  you  again.  LIST  OF  SURVIVORS.  Neilson  Williamgon,  Master.  John  Weaver  First  Lieutenant  of  Marinm  Francis  Ifogl;ton,  Midshipman),  Late  of  hl4  Majesty's  ship  Thomas  Main,  clerk  Aliso:l4"
