text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  MARCH  26.  titre  deliberation,  and  however  ungracious  it  might  ap appear,  pear, appear,  after  the  communication  made  b)  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  he  must  still  persist  in  it.  He  had  conscientiously  voted  against  all  the  Addresses  yilti•.-1  went  to  charge  his  Royal  Highness  with  corruption  or  criminal  connivance  (Hear  !  heart)  and  he  perfectly  concurred  hi  thinking  with  his  Right  thin.  Friend  (Mr.  Perceval)  that  ais  Royal  Highness  went  oat  with  clean  hands  (  Hear  !  hear  !  j'eNn  the  Ministerial  bench**.  )  put  after  that  question  was  decided,  he  caw  no  other  course  for  the  House  to  porsoe,  than  that  branch  of  the  inquiry  which  he  had  taken  up.  The  question  of  interference,  without  any  degree  Of  corruption  attaching  to  it—of  interference  arising  from  an  im improper  proper improper  and  unworthy  influence,  appeared  to  him  to  be  one  which  the  House  ought  to  come  to  a  decision  upon.  This  'was  the  view  w  lich  he  took  of  the  subject,  when  he  tirst  sub submitted  mitted submitted  his  Resolution  to  the  llotke,  and  he  had  seen  no  occasion  to  alter  his  opinion.  Some  (cnttemneu  would  have  voted  for  the  more  severe  measures,  had  not  his  intention  of  bringing  for forward  ward forward  his  Resolution  been  known,  and  this  he  thought  a  very  strong  reason  for  not  withdrawing  it.  In  describing  the  connection  which  the  Duke  had  himself  condemned  in  his  letter,  but  only  in  one  place,  and  then  oul  y  with  a  reftvence  to  the  unpleasant  pt  o-  Feedings  which  had  re  s  ulted  from  it,  he  had  expre  , STYLE=superscript  sed  his  sense  of  the  initnorldity  of  the  transaction.  It  had  been  argued  that  the  House  was  a  very  improper  judge  upon  such  occasions;  but  where  a  connection  might  have  led  to  such  dangerous  conse consequences  quences consequences  to  the  State,  he  fii4  not  see  how  the  House  co  uld STYLE=superscript  withhold  its  opinion.  The  Right  Honourable  Gentleman  concluded  with  moving  the  following  Resolution,  44 STYLE=superscript  That  while  this  House  acknowledges,  with  gratitude,  the  beneficial  'effects  of  the  rules  and  regulations  introduced  by  the  Duke  of  York  into  the  office  of  Commander  in  Chief,  and.  the  general  improvement  of  the  army  under  his  command,  it  has  seen,  with  sleep  regret,  that  a  connection  the  most  immoral  and  unbecom-  Ow  6,  was  attended  with  impropercommunication  and  i STYLE=superscript  n  terfere STYLE=superscript  n  ce, STYLE=superscript  and  gave  colour  and  effect  to  transactions  the  most  criminal  and  'disgraceful.''  Sir  WtI.I.IAM  CuRTIs  supported-the  Motion,  Lord  A  L  - STYLE=superscript  rn  on  PE  was  of  opinion  that  the  Duke  of  York  had  been  guilty  of  corrupt  connivance  (Hear!  Hear!)  hut  he  thought  the  country  would  now  be  *satisfied  with  his  'removal.  should  therefore  propose  as  an  amendment  to  the  Right  Hon.  tientleman's  Resolution,  that  his  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  York  having  resigned  the  office  of  Comumader•  in  Chief,  the  House  does  not  feel  it  necessary  to  proceed  any  further  into  the  consideration  of  the  minutes  of  the  evidence  before  the  House,  as  far  as  they  relate  to  the  Duke  of  York,  The  CLIANcO.I.Oft  of  the  EXCIIEWIER  said,  he  preferred  the  Amendment  of  the  'Noble  Lord  to  the  :notion  of  ilk  Right  lion.  Friend,  which  appeared  to  him  n:  tp  ported  by  any  evidence  at  the  bar.  ile  should  I;at  ny  time  have  thought  it  necessary,  aud  still  less  so  at  the  present,  when  his  Royal  Highness  had  sent  in  his  resignation.  Lord  TEMPLE  stated,  that  when  he  heard  the  Commander  in  chief  had  resigned,  he  thought  further  proceedings  unnecessary,  but  that  opinion  was  altered  when  he  heard  the  communication  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  and  the  tone  in  which  that  communication  was  made,  when  he  said  his  Royal  High Highpess  pess Highpess  did  not  resign  until  his  innocence  was  declared  (hear!  hear!)  The  Noble  Lord  acquitted  his  Royal  Highness  of  cor corruption'  ruption' corruption'  ;  but  asked  if  it  could  he  said  that  he  was  acquitted  of  dispef;ing  of  places  in  his  patronage  under  an  unworthy  and  un unbecoMing  becoMing unbecoMing  influence  (  hear  !  hear  !).  Mr,  WIIITIMEAn  concurred  in  the  Amendment  proposed  by  the  Noble  Lord.  He  explained  his  roasons  at  length,  and  ad..  verted  to  some  points  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  s  speech.  He  did  not  think  there  was  any  man  in  existence,  who  could  have  thought,  after  the  result  of  the  Joe  inquiry  in  this  Ilituse,  and  the  vote  given  on  Friday  last,  that  the  Duke  of  York  would  have  remained  in  the  situation  which  he  occupied,  lint  now  that  he  had  resigned,  he  thought  a  motion  which  war  intei  ded  to  enforce  his  resignation,  quite  unnecessary.  It  would  annihilate  that  secret,  felt  though  unseen,  party,  which  Lord  Chatham  had  represented  as  standing  behind  the  Throne,  and  stronger  than  the  Throne  itself.  He  did  not  approve  of  a  moral  lecture  to  lie  delivered  to  Princes.  The  Princes  belonging  to  the  Royal  Family  in  this  kingdom.were  compelled  to  marry  against  their  will,  and  therefore  almost  forced  into  guilt  by  the  rebellious  feelings  of  independent  nature.  He  vindicated  Mr.  Wardle's  conduct  it  bringing  forward  t  h STYLE=superscript  e  p  resent STYLE=superscript  Inquiry,  aod  congratulated  him  on  the  199  Members  of  the  House  of  Commons,  that  could  not  fail  to  thank  him  for  his  courage  and  patriotism.  The  CLIANOCLLOR  of  the  EICUSQUER  repelled  AO  charge  197  of  having  abandoned  the  Duke,  who  had  acted  from  his  own  free  will,  unbiassed  by  advice.  Mr.  BATHURST  replied  at  length,  Isad  the  House  divided.  The  Numbers  for  the  Chancellor's  Amendment  were  Against  it  I  Is—Majority  in  favour  of  Ministers  123.  Lord  FOTASTO  ME  also  put  oil  his  notice  of  Motion  from  Mona  .  day  nett,  fortaltini  into  further  consideration  the  Report  of  the  Cummtttee  Appointed  to  enquire  into  the  conduct  of  his  Royal  Iligimea  the  'Duke  of  York,  until  the  17th  of  April  next.  —  Adjourned  Tuesday,  Mare:  21.  VICTUALLING  BOARD  ArroINTMENTS.  Sid  C,  pursuant  to  notice,  in  support  of  bit  psi.  Bon,  recurred  to  u  long  series  of  documents  in  the  Reports  of  the  Committees  of  Finance  and  of  Naval  Revision,  and  took  an  his historical  torical historical  view  of  the  state  of  the  Navy  at  different  periods,  in  or order  der order  as  well  to  she  w  that  that  state  was  always  affected  either  by  the  possession  or  the  want  of  professional  experience  in  those  who  at  different  times  undertook  its  management,  and  directed  its  operations,  as  to  prove,  that  within  the  present  reign,  for  the  want  of  such  experience,  ability,  and  industry  in  those  who  at  different  periods  superintended  the  various  branches  of  naval  extraditure,  the  most  gross  and  flagitious  profusion,  improvi improvidence,  dence, improvidence,  and  pecilation  had  prevailed  in  our  dock•yards  at  home,  and  our  Beets  in  foreign  service;  and.  that  the  public  accounts  in  that  department  had  been  suffered  to  run  into  such  arrear  and  confusion,  as  to  render  the  audit  of  them  totally  impracticable,  for  a  series  of  twenty  years  together,  to  the  preclusion  of  all  etl'ectual  means  to  c  :eck  the  progress  of  peculation  and  fraud  .  When  the  urgent  a:7lirs  of  this  country  called  for  great  ex.  penditure.  and  consequently  for  a  heavy  pressure  of  taxation  on  the  people,  it  was  hut  right  and  reasonable  that  the  people  should  be  convinced  that  a  scrupulous  and  efficient  yigilatae  was  exerted  in  every  department  of  office,  in  order  to  secure  the  fair  application  of  every  shilliug  granted  for  the  public  service;  and  his  principal  motive  for  now  calling  the  attention  or  the  !louse  to  this  suhje.t,  was  not  to  cast  any  blame  on  the  present  Board  of  Adonira!ty,  but  in  order  to  record  on  the  Jour Journak  nak Journak  of  the  House  a  resolution  which  he  should  have  the  honour  to  propose  now,  That  it  is  the  opinion  of  this  Hoose  that  neither  the  plan  recommended  by  the  Commis 'Commis'  sioncrs  of  Naval  it  evision,,,Sespecting  the  Victualling  Board,  nor  any  other  plan  can  he  effectual,  if  that  Board  be  coin 'coin'  posed  of  any  other  than  men  of  extensive  experience,  know know!  ! know!  ledge,  ability,  integrity,  and  indefatigable  perseverance  in  their,ditties.  •  .  •  •  :wt  r.  It,  WARD  Said..thatOte  4001  be  totally  at  a  loss  to  undermwi;.:  !he  real  object  of  the  lionoerable  Baronet's  motiort  ruin  his  ;:.pecelt  t4is  night;  if  he  had  not  heard  the  conversations conversationsboth  both conversationsboth  w  ithin  slid  without  -those  malls  which  had  their  origin  in  the  suggestions  of  the  Baronet,  an  were  calculated  to  throw  blame  on  the  present STYLE=superscript  Board  o.  :'..(  l STYLE=superscript  .atiralty.  He  must,  there therefore,  fore, therefore,  he  excused  from  imputing  Bic  :aotion  of  the  Hon.  Baronet  merely  to  the  motives  he  avowed.  lie  must  call  things  by  their  right  names,  and  freely,  avow  his  nwh  conviction,  - STYLE=superscript  that  the  true  object  of  the  lion.  Baronet's  motion  was  to  cast  an  indirect  cell cell.  . cell.  sure  on  (he  of  Admiralty;  and,  therefore,  without  digs  pining  from  the  truth  the  Resolution,  lie  would  oppose  it  by  the  previous  question.  The  motion  went  to  charge  the  Admi Admiralty  ralty Admiralty  with  blame  without  a  single  argument  in  support  of  it.  —  He  was,  therefore,  compelted  to  move  the  previous  question.  Sir  C.  POLE  shortly  replied,  and  the  previous  question  was  then  carried  without  a  division.  Mr.  FosTeß  moved,  the  the  Order  of  the  Day  for  the  com committal  mittal committal  of  the  Irish  Malt  and  Spirit  Duty  Bill  should  De  read.  His  object  was  to  postpone  its  committal  to  Thursday  next,  as  he  did  not  think  a  Bill  so  materially  affecting  Ireland  could  be  pro properly  perly properly  discussed  in  so  thin  a  House.  Sir  3.  NEWPORT  said,  he  rose  for  the  purpose  of  moving,  not  that  this  Bill  should  be  postponed  to  Thursday,  but  to  this  day  six  months—a  Bill  which  be  thought  fraught  with  the  most  evil  consequences  to  Ireland,  and  teading  to  endanger  the  peace  of  the  whole  Eampire.  A  long  conversation  then  took  place  upon  the  subject,  in  which  Mr.  W.  Smith,  Mr.  Barham,  Mr.  Leslie  rester,  the  chancelloo  of  the  Exchequer  , STYLE=superscript  M  r. STYLE=superscript  Hutchinson, STYLE=superscript  Mr. STYLE=superscript  Foster,  Mr.  Grants,  Mr.  Alderman  Combe,  and  Mr.  Iluskisson  took  a  part,  ate  which  a  division  took  place—For  the  original  Motion  3001.  the  Amendment  49—Mejority  against  the  UM  13.-+The  there  lust  for  this  lieuion.—AAjoitratd.  •  •  P5_TB00007 I  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  MARCH  26.  Motion;  to  which  Lord  ALTHOR  PC  proposed  an  Amendment,  stating  that  as  his  Royal  Highness  resigned  the  command  of  the  army,  the  House  does  not  think  It  necessary  now  to  proceed  any  further.  To  this  Mr.  PEKCEVA  L  moved  an  Amendment,  that  the  word  now  he  omitted.  Mr.  PERCIVA.  es  Amendment  was  earried  by  a  majority  of  235  to  112.  Lord  FOLKESTONE  has  given  notice  of  his  intention  to  make  some  further  statements  respecting  his  Royal  Highness,  on  the  11th  of  next  month.  As  far  as  it  aas  possible  to  ascertain  the  public  opinion  on  this  momentous  goestinn,  it  seemed  to  coincide,  at  least,  in  the  neces-  sity  in  which  the  DuliZ  of  YORK  wai  placed  to  renounce  his  ap appointment  pointment appointment  of  Commander  in  chief.  Whatever  maybe  the  sentiment  of  his  guilt  and  innocence,  the  feeling,  we  will  risk  to  say,  was  general,  that  his  Royal  Highness  had  given  proofs  of  weakness  and  inconsiderateness,  to  speak  of  him  as  tenderly  as  possible,  which  disqualified  him  for  an  office  of  such  great  respotisi,  bility.  As  to  his  military  talents  we  will  say  little  ;-..they  never  produced  a  single  brilliant  advantage  to  his  country.  As  to  the  services  he  may  have  rendered  in  his  capacity  of  commander  in  Chief;--we  would  he  the  last  persons  in  esistence  to  detract  from  them,  either  from  party  motives,  or  private-  malignity  ;  but  it  is  impossible  to  impute  to  his  single  exertions,  activity  or  patriotism,  any  amelioration  which  may  have  taken  place  in  the  militpry  department.  This  amelioration,  should,  with  more  propriety,  be  attributed  to  the  menacing  and  accumulating  dan dangers  gers dangers  of  our  situation  ;—They  were  so  urgent  as  to  fix  a  mass  of  talents  and  attention  on  that  department,  This  collection  of  means  and  knowledge  and  circumstances  must  necessarily  have  operated  beneficially  on  the  army  ;  and  it  has  become,  w  hat  it  now  is,  the  terror  of  our  enemy,  and  the  ad admiration  miration admiration  of  every  man  who  has  attentively  examined  its  organi organization.  zation. organization.  Therefore,  we  are  far  from  thinking  that  other  Officers  are  not,  at  least,  as  fully  competent  to  fill  so  important  an  office  as  his  Royal  Highness  ;  or  that  any  relaxation  of  zeal  or  discipline  will  be  apparent  now  that  the  1)t:  ter,  of  YORK  has  yielded  to  the  unanimous  voice  of  the  Public.  The  crimi criminal  nal criminal  weakness  he  displayed  during  his  connection  with  Mrs.  CLARKE  rendered  his  resignation  not  only  urgent  but  indis indispensible  pensible indispensible  ;  and  we  are  happy  to  perceive  that  the  DUKE  has  complied  with  - STYLE=superscript  this  necessity.  It  is  impossible  not  to  advert  on  this  - STYLE=superscript  occasion  to  the  enlight enlightened  ened enlightened  principles  of  our  constitution,  which  enable  the  public  opinion  to  exercise  a  controul  so  beneficial  and  decisive,  over  the  servants  of  the  state.  The  public  judgment  may  err,  but  the  public  feeling  never  ;  and  though  a  great  mass  of  the  people  may  have  peen  incompetent  to  unravel  the  perplexing  mass  of  evidence  laid  before  the  House  of  Commons,  and  discriminate,  with  the  over  nice  distinction  of  the  bar,  between  specious  and  positive  wilt;  there  was  not  a  single  individual  of  that  number,  however  limited  his  intellectual  bense,  that  had  not  moral  sense  enough  to  perceive,  that  the  writer  of  the  letters  to  Mrs.  CL4ELKE  was  not  a  fit  person  to  be  intrusted  with  an  office  of  high  responsibility.  It  is  as  difficult  to  pass  over  the  manly,  firm,  and  patriotic  i  conduct  of  Mr.  WARDLE,  who  brought  forward  these  ch:lrges,  under  difficulties  and  menaces,  which  induced  a  number  or  per persons,  sons, persons,  who  admired  his  conduct,  to  tremble  at  the  consequeoces  of  his  zeal,  integrity,  and  patriotism.  It  would  betray  a  pro profound  found profound  ignorance  of  our  history,  as  of  the  abuses  inseparable  from  power,  to  overlook  the  important  advantages  the  people  acquire  from  having  a  man  of  his  ivaexibility,  and  courage,  in  the  number  of  their  representatives.  He  has  merited  in  a  full  measure  the  thanks  of  his  country  ;  and  we  are  happy  to  perceive  that  the  citizens  of  Canterbury,  have  voted  him  the  freedom  of  their  accompanied  with  their  thanks  for  the  manner  in  which  he  conducted  the  proceedings  on  the  charges  against  the  late  Com•  wander  in  Chief.  The  Cities  of  Glasgow  and  Rochester  have  con convened  vened convened  meetings  fur  the  same  patriotic  purpose  ;  and  we  trust  this  hoLourable  example  will  be  followed  by  every  other  corporation  iu  the  United  Kingdom.  This  is  the  fittest  recompance  for  men  w  ho  201  render  distinguished  services  to  their  country  ;—it  resembles  the  civic  crown,  the  laurel  branch,  conferred  by  the  ancients  0Q  their  benefactors  and  heroes.  A  remuneration  in  money  was  thought  of  when  the  exertions  of  individuals  tended  more  to  promote  the  views  of  the  Prince,  than  the  interests  of  thecom thecommunity.  munity. thecommunity.  Sir  DAVID  DUNDAS  was  presented,  on  Wednesday  to  his  MAJESTY  at  the  Levee,  upon  receiving  his  appointment  as  Commander  in  Chief,  and  was  sworn  iu  a  member  of  the  Privy  Conseil.  He  is  a  brave  and  meritorious  Officer  ;  but  me  would  rather  see  this  important  Office  entrusted  to  a  Military  Board,  nu  a  plan  somewhat  similar  to  that  of  the  Board  of  idnxi idnxirnity,  rnity, idnxirnity,  Letters  dated  the2tst  inst.  have  been  received  from  Ifol Ifolland.  land. Ifolland.  They  do  not  corroborate  the  previous  accounts,  re received  ceived received  through  the  same  channel,  of  hostilities  baying  ac actually  tually actually  commenced  between  Austria  and  France.  The  ex extreme  treme extreme  caution  they  observe  in  adverting  to  the  occurrences  in  Germany  is  a  proof  of  the  rigorous  precautions  which  have  been  adopted  to  prevent  intelligence  of  the  real  state  of  that  country  being  transmitted  to  this.  By  a  carmpa carmpathon  thon carmpathon  of  their  contents,  the  following  particulars:  may,  however,  be  collected  and  relied  on,—The  Austrian  armies  are  universally  in  motion  ;  and  are  far  more  numerous,  formidable,  and  better  organised,  than  they  have  been  represented  in  the  papers  under  the  controul  of  the  tyrant.  They  have  arrived  before  now,  amply  and  better  supplied  than  in  any  former  campaign,  with  every  article  essential  to  a  vigorous  prosecution  of  ilostilities,  at  their  respectise  places  of  desteettion,  and  have  probably  sustained  already  the  first  shock  ..of  the  enemy.  Tne  nomination  of  the  Archduke  •CH  ARLES  to  the  chief  and  uncontrouled  command  of  the  respective  ar armies,  mies, armies,  has  produced  the  highest.  confidence  in  the  ()Thee,.  and  soldier,  and  diffused  among;  every  cias3  of  Austrian  subjects,  the  most  sanguine  hopes  of  success.  Ile  places  nimseif  at  the  head  of  that  force  wherever  it  may  be,  which  shalt  be  opposed  to  that  commanded  by  R  -ON  APA  RTE.  rrson.  The  highest  unanimity  prevails  in  every  province  of  Austria,  and  a  cheerful  submission  to  the  measures,  proposed  by  go government  vernment government  in  this  important  juncture,  distinguish's  the  con conduct  duct conduct  of  the  peasant,  as  well  as  that  of  the  Nobleman  and  Merchant.  The  militia  evince  as  much  zeal  :cud  alacrity  as  the  regular  corps;  and  the  Ilungari:ms,  so  often  the  terror,  and  in  a  crisis  almost  equally  dangerous,  the  last  prop  of  the  Empire,  display  as  much  ardour  on  the  re resent  sent resent  occasion,  as  they  did  in  that  memorable  one,  sslien  they  stepped  forward  to  support  the  rights  of  Mattis  THE THERESA  RESA THERESA  against  the  united  efforts  of  France,  Prussia,  Spain  and  Bavat  ia.  The  following  facts  may  likewise  be  relied  on.  A  strong  :ermentation  exists  in  Tyrol;  and  these  brave  Mountaineets  have  exhibited  such  marks  of  disaffection  to  the  Bavarian  Government,  that  the  greater  part  of  the  BA  varian  troops  has  been  ordered,  muter  •  Baron  Vos  WnEosl,  to  keep  them  in  awe.  Sentiments,  equally  fevourn  We  to  the  cause  of  Austria  is  going  to  contend  for,  are  manifested,  though  not  so  openly,  by  all  the  States  that  have  volitatarily  entered,  or  been  presse4  into  the  Rhenish  Confede Confederacy.  racy. Confederacy.  The  desertion  from  the  Bavarian  and  Wurtemberg  troops  was  so  universal,  that  it  was  foutvi  expedient,  towards  the  end  of  last  month,  to  remove  them  to  a  greater  distance  from  the  Austrian  frontiers.'  The  co-operation  of  Saxony  in  this  iniquitous  aggression,  is  not  only  doelkful  but  may  be  denied  with  safety.  •  And,  if  we  take  the  raoral  character  of  the  Sovereign,  the  feelings  of  the  Saxo,is  and  the  long longestablished  established longestablished  family  alliance  between  the  twa  courts,  into  consideration,  we  feel  less  hesitation  to  discredit  the  re reported  ported reported  repugnance  of  that  Prince  to  contribute  to  the  :rser :rserthrow  throw :rserthrow  of  Austria.  The  hostile  demonstrations  said  to  he  made  by  the'  KING  of  P  e-USSLA  may  postlibly  originate  in  the  speculations  •  and  wishes  of  the  writers  of  these  letters,  in  which  they  are  unequivocally  mentioned  ;  hat  it*  env  political  conjecture  to  that  ile  -p  e  c  e  eee  k  fte  terel  oe  the  MARC!!  26.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  •  routine  and  miserable  combinations  of  official  systematists.  To  their  anxious  and  diffident  policy,  and  to  that  exclu-  I  sively,  should  be  attributed  the  disappointment  and  mor-  ,  1  tification  which  attended  our  arms  since  the  ill-fated  at attack  tack attack  on  Duulsirk.  Net  one  of  our  expeditious,  since  that  time,  has  been  planned,  or  executed,  with  heart,  spirit,  or  promptitude,  These  weak  and  heartless  men  obstinately  adhered  to  their  pusillanimous  half-measures,  after  the  victories  at  'llaida  and  at  Vimiera,  the  prodigies  performed  at  Acre  anti  at  Rosze,  had  raised  an  immortal  monument  of  the  tiperiority  of  British  courage.  Sluggishness  and  excessive  ...antion  are  so  deeply  ingrafted  in  our  councils,  that  even  in  this  tremendous  crisis,  when  the  last  battle  for  the  inde independence  pendence independence  of  the  world  is  on  the  eve  of  being  fought,  not  a  single  demonstration  evinces,  on  the  part  of  our  Govern-  Ment,  an  intention,  or  even  a  wish,  to  take  an  effective  part  in  this  g  reat  and  decisive  struggle.  When  our  whole  army  should  line  our  coasts,  where  an  adequate  number  of  transports,  for  their  cenveyance,  should  he  in  coestaet  readiness,  we  do  not  hear  el  a  single  movement  pre preparatory  paratory preparatory  to  an  invasion  of  the  enemy's  shores.  Would  to  Heaven  f  the  intelligent  and  the  patriotic  among  'our  countrymen  would  reuse  themselves,  in  this  alarm alarming  ing alarming  juncture,  to  a  stronger  sense  of  the  danger  and  disgrace  of  our  inr,ctivity.  The  delay  of  a  month  may  be  I.  fatal.  We  sleep  and  lull  ourselves  ia  security,  when  the  forked  lightening  menaces  the  'mansions  and  lives  of  our  nearest  . STYLE=superscript  neighhours.  The  storm  which  threatens  them  with  destruction,  if  we  do  not  contribute  to  avert  it,  will,  after  having  ravaged  their  fields,  collect,  with  more  frightful  symptoms,  round  our  own  shores.  The  same  warning  has  been  frequently  given  to  other  governments  on  occasions  less  terrific  ;  anti  they  rejected  it  with  the  same  overweening  ioufidence,  as  we  seen!  to  do  in  this  moment;  --they  gave  likewise  a  preference  to  the  weak  policy  of  reserving  their  armies  for  the  eventual  dangers  that  might  occur.  not  reflecting  that,  when  they  arrived,  hew  incompetent  their  single  efforts  were  to  meet  them.  '  The  Prussian  army,  had  it  been  stationed  in  Anspach  and  Bayreuth,  at  the  commencement  of  the  last  campaiit  Austria,  the  disasters  of  the  latter  might  have  been  pre prevented;  vented; prevented;  and  FREDERiCii  W  ILLIAM  would  reign  as  Sovereign  over  the  great  tract  of  country  extend extending  ing extending  from  the  NieMen  to  the  Rhine.  But  the  despicable  Automata  in  office  rejected  this  vigorous  and  self-evtdeut  policy,  soldiers  experience.  ff  we  will  avoid  the  dis disasters  asters disasters  which  have  overwhelmed  a  Monarchy  founded,  as  we'may  say,  on  military  honour,  we  must  also  adopt  aline  of  conduct  the  very  reverse  of  that  which  subverted,  in  the  course  of  . STYLE=superscript  six  weeks,  an  Empire  which  ficl  been  erectingduring  fifty  years  of  genius  and  the  most  unpre unprecedented  cedented unprecedented  exploits,  '  Our  army,  if  promptly  and  efficaciously  employed,  may  save  Austria,  Europe,  and  ourselves.  it  is  nauseous,  it  is  insulting  to  repeat  what  ()Very  man  knows,  and  what  the  French  have  felt—that  our  soldiers,  in  every  thing  which  distinguishes  the  profession,  are  superior  to  those  of  the  enemy.  'if  we  have  a  deficiency  of  men  qualified  to  con conduct  duct conduct  large  armies,  a  few  battles  will  create  and  call  them  into  notice.  BACON  says,  that  the  exercise  best  eualified  , STYLE=superscript  to  preserve  the  'health  and  vigour  of  a  state,  is  a  just  war.,  the  present  is,  unquestionably,  the  justest  and  ost  honourable  that.  a  country  was  ever  involved  in.  We  . STYLE=superscript  are'  ,  l  i  going  to  'fight  for.  every  thing  which  is  binding  on  men,  *rushee,  honour,  permanent  security,  or  permanent  miP.ery,.  appeal,-  with  equal'  force,  to  the  feelings  and  interests  o  1  the  British  nation  and  government.  Th'e  apathy  and.  lukewarm lukewarmness  ness lukewarmness  of  the  Ministers  'appal  us,  we  mast  confess.  They  have  .  done,  and  do  nothing;  worthy  of  the  resources  -of  thecoua-.  try.  We:see  in  their  measures,  conduct  and  policy,  alithe  alarming-  signs  which  preceded  the  downfall  -of  the  Prussian  Monarchy.  They  evince  the  same  levity  and  oscillation  on  the  very  brink  of  the  precipice.  They  issue  orders,  and  withdraw  'them  in  the  same  breath,  ..They!  plan  expeditious,  awl  whew  they  are  road,  for  Win,  ..  •  .  order  the  troops  to  disembark.  They  begin  to  arm  when  the  contest  is  half  over;  and  every  act  of  their  foreign  po policy  licy policy  is  stamped  with  want  of  fixed  object  and  will,  A  New-York  Mail  arrived  yesterday  and  brought  New-York  Papers  to  the  19th  of  February  inclusive,  with  sotue  letters  from  New-York  of  the  lath.  A  Non-Intercourse  Bill  is  in  its  pro progress  gress progress  through  Congress,  by  which  the  importation  of  British  and  French  goods  is  to  cease  after  the  '2oth  of  May,  and  the  Embargo,  as  it  respects  all  other  Countries  but  Great  Britain  and  France,  was  to  be  repealed  on  the  4th  of  this  month.  'ki►e  following  are  the  important  contents  of  these  Papers  :  HOOSn  OP  22.VPRBSATAT4TIEAS,  .7.1  N.  50.  A  message  was  received  from  the  President,  it  embraced  a  letter  from  Mr.  CANNING  to  Mr.  PINKNEY,  dated  the  22d  of  November,  in  reply  to  Mr.  ffirtu.Ncv's  of  the  10th  of  that  month.  Mr.  NICHOLAS  moved  to  strike,  out  the  whole  of  his  resolu.  tion  for  removing  the  Embargo  and  preparing  for  War,  except  the  word  for  the  purpo:•e  of  introducing  a  propo proposition,  sition, proposition,  following  nip  the  repeal  of  the  Embargo,  at  a  certain  day,  by  letters  of  marque  and  reprisal.  The  tnation  to  striks  out  was  carried  by  a  great  majority.  Fee.  I.—The  Ilousedecided  53  to  41,  to  ;Triune  the  con  side:  ration  of  Nicholas's  Resolutions.  The  question  was  taken,  to  strike  out  that  part  of  the  Rom Romlution  lution Romlution  w  hich  proposes  issuing  Letters  of  Marque  and  Reprisa4  and  carried  in  the  affirmative—Ayes  57,  /fives  39.  It  was  decided  by  61  votes  to  2,  to  repeal  the  Embargo  on  the  4th  of  March.  FEU.  11.-..  The  Approbation  Bill  was  read  a  third  time  and  passed.  The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  provision  of  the  Bill  :  All  armed  ships  or  vessels  of  Brett  Britain  and  France  are  inter interdicted  dicted interdicted  from  entering  our  ports,  from  the  passing  of  the  act.  Un Unarmed  armed Unarmed  vessels  are  to  he  interdicted,  from  and  after  the  day  of  nest.  Importations  of  British  and  French  goods,  wares,  aud  inereharniize,  are  to  cease  after  the  20th  of  Atay  next.  If  either  Britain  or  France  shall  revoke  the  Orders  or  Decrees  violating  our  neutral  rights,  the  operation  of  the  law  as  it  re.  spects  the  power  revoking.  should  forthwith  cease.  As  it  re respects  spects respects  all  other  countries,  the  Linhargo  is  to  he  repealed  ou  the  4th  of  March.  Vessels  sailing  after  the  removal  of  the  Em Em!.argo,  !.argo, Em!.argo,  are  to  give  bonds  in  dotehle  the  amount  of  the  vessel  and  cargo,  not  to  violate  the  provisions  of  the  Non-Intercourse  Law.  The  Bill  was  made  the  Order  of  the  Day  for  Tueslas  .  This  Bill  has  been  reported  much  earlier  than  wits  expected.  The  !tli  Of  March  is  coil:  010  the  day  vs  hick  bas  been  finally  fixed  oa oa.  . oa.  for  the  repeal  of  the  Embargo.  Esoa  Y,  Fr.a.  14.—The  Bill  for  laying  an  additional  duty  upon  importations  was  considered  in  Committee  of  the  whole.  .  The  blank  in  the  first  section,  for  the  advance  per  cent=  upon  the  permanent  duties  now  imposed  by  laW,  was  filled  on  the  motion  of  M  r  .  Alston,  with  the  word  fifty  (per  cent.)  Of  course  the  duties  are  nut  doubled,  as  was  originally  contemplat,  ed.  The  Non-Intercourse  Bill  has  qot  heen  taken  L.  The  Senate  have  passed'  Mr.  Giles's  Resolution,  No.  1,  of  the  Repeal  of  the  Enibargo,  and  substituting  NOn-lnie‘yourse—,  Ayes  23--Noes  The  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  gave  notice  on  Fr;day,  as  will  be  seen  by  our  Parbatheritary  Report,  of  a  niotiint  to  •  bring  in  a  Bal:for  preventing  the  disposal  of  places  by  hrok,ers.  Whatever  good  this  Bill  may  do,  therefore,  iii  ►t  dud  any,  of  which  we  have  some  doubt),  will  have  resulted  from  the  labours  and  discoveries  of  Mr.  Wardle,  But  why  is  it  only  now  that  such  a  measure  has  been  first  thought  of?  The  evil  to  be  remedied—the  traffic  in  public  offices,-  has  been  as  notorious  44  public  advertisements  could  render  them;  and  as  the  customs  and  manners  of  a  people  are  said  to  be-best  learned  by  their  novels  and  newspapers,  foreign foreignens  ens foreignens  must  have  had  a  strange  idea  of  the  British  Govern Government,  ment, Government,  who  saw  in  the  same  column  advertised  a  sale  of  horses,  and  of  «  Seats  in  a  certain  •.  The  Emoluments  lost  by  the  Duke  of  York,  in  conse consequence  quence consequence  of  his  resignation  as  Commander  in  Chief,  are  esti estimated  mated estimated  by  military  men  at  about  60001.  per  anti.  Th?,  ap appointments  pointments appointments  are  'l,O/.'  a‘clay;  besides  an  allowance  for  be  hones,  his  travelling  expouces  defrayed,  stationary,  &amp;c.  ;"
