text
"120  •.  whom  le  - STYLE=superscript  77  - STYLE=superscript  Prettsitrifte  - STYLE=superscript  steTie•  — STYLE=superscript  r  ee STYLE=superscript  Stirt.  Mrs:  Clarke's  evidencet  had  been  very  deficient,  and  Captain  Sandoo's,  as  he  should  skew,  bad  been  oul  e  -.edam.  From  Vain.  Sandon's  evidence  it  appear appeared  ed appeared  that  :0..j0r  Tonyn  had  expressed  his  conviction  that  his  fa father  ther father  would  procure  for  him  a  Majority;  but  how  Captain  San.  don  )IV  . STYLE=superscript  O  t':.!  N  4.  ie  prevailing  on  Major  Tonyo  to  wait  for  some  days  longer,  and  not  to  withdraw  the  money  lodged,  had  not  appeared.  It  was  with  respect  to  this  particular  .  and  es essential  sential essential  point  that  he  had  discovered  .a  suppression  of  evidence:  Colonel  Hamilton  belonged  to  the  Waggon  Corps,  in  which  Sandon  was  also  a  Captain,  and,  of  course,  on  terms  of  intima intimaey.•  ey.• intimaey.•  Colonel  Hamilton  stated,  that  Captain  Sandon  had  told  him  n  y  the  same  thlins  that  he  had  given  in  evidence  before  the  Committee,  with  the  exception  of  some  very  important  cir cireuniqauces  euniqauces cireuniqauces  which  he  had  suppressed  :  he  told  that,  on  representing  to  Mrs.  Clarke  that  Major  Tonyn  doubted  of  her  having  influence  with  the  Duke  of  York  to  procure  his  promo.  Lion,  she  said  she  had  that  influence,  and  gave  him  a  note,  pur purporting  porting purporting  to  be  from  the  Duke  of  York,  intimating  that  Tonyn's  business  should  be  done;  which  was  shewn  to  Major  Tonyn  by  Capt.  Sandon,  and  in  consequence  of  which  Major  Tony's'  sup supposed  posed supposed  that  he  was  certain  af  promotion.  Capt.  Sandon  had  also  told  Col.  Hamilton  that  he  shewed  Major  Tonyn  another  note,  purporting  also  to  be  from  the  Duke  of  York,  and  stating  that  Major  Tonyn  should  be  Gazetted  that  night.  This  note  Major  Too:  n  had  got,  but  the  other  Capt.  Sandon  stated  that  he  had  in  his  possession,  butexpressed  a  wish  to  destroy  ;  but  Col.  Ha-•  thilton  earnestly  diSsuaded  him  from  it,  and  advised  him  to  tell  all  he  knew.  Mr.  Adam  and  I  dissuaded  Colonel  Hamilton  from  going  to  Mr.  Lowton  or  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  advised  him  to  remain  perfectly  neutral,  only  that  Le  should  go  to  Capt.  Sandon  and  get  a  copy  of  the  note.  Colonel  Hamilton  accordingly  applied  to  Capt.  Sandon  fora  copy  of  the  note,  and  having  seen  it  when  he  took  the  copy,  supposed  it  to  be  the  hand-writing  of  the  Duke  of  York.  His  Royal  Highness  was  convinced,  how however,  ever, however,  that  this  note  must  be  a  forgery,  as  he  had  no  recollection  of  writing,  nor  ditl  he  believe  he  could  write  such  a  note.  This  passed  on  the  Saturday,  and  on  the  following  (lay  Colonel  Hamilton  came  to  hiiu,  and  told  him  that  he  had  seen  Sandon,  who  said  he  was  not  unwilling  to  give  every  informzoiata,  but  that  he  had  destroyed  the  note,  and  of  course  had  sup  pte..sed  all  these  circumstances  in  his  evidence.  We  can  no  100,  , STYLE=superscript  ;er,  of  course,  rely  an  Sandon's  evidence,  but  must  have  recourse  to  Col.  Hamilton  fur  necessary  information.  Should  the  note,  however,  be  in  existence,  its  production  must  be  of  time  utmost  importance.  Thus  far  he  had  thought  it  necessary  to  explain,  lest  it  should  be  thought  that  these  facts  had  been  withheld  by  him,  or  his  friends  on  his  side  of  the  House,  to  serve  any  par particular  ticular particular  purpose.  Examination  of  Captain  Sandal),  by  Mr.  Pencr.va  1,.  Q•  Did  you  represent'  to  Calomel  Hamilton  the  same  circum circumstances  stances circumstances  you  have  told  the  Committee  ?  A.  I  told  Colonel  Hamiltou  what  I  knew,  and  what  1  have  now  stated  ;  I  asked  his  - STYLE=superscript  advice,  and  s  him  chiefly  what  I  knew.—Q,  Did  you  not  state  to  Co)  .  Hamilton  that  this  note  was  hi  the  Duke  of  York's  band-Writing.  A.  I  don't  recollect.—Q.  Did  you  whew  him  the  nets  ?  A.  I  might  whew  it  him  ;  I  don't  recollect.—Q.  Did  you  permit  him  to  tae  tx  copy  of  it  ?  A.  Not  that  I  know  of.—Q  Was  this  note  you  shewed  Col.  Hamilton  the  same  you  shewed  to  Major  Tonytt  respecting  his  promotion?  A.  I  do  not  recol recollect  lect recollect  ?  it  must  have  been  so,  I  think.—Q.  You  now  recollect,  however,  there  is  such  a  note  ?  A.  I  believe  the  note  is  mis-  •  laid.-  - STYLE=superscript  -Q.  Have  you  looked  for  it  lately  ?  A.  I  .looked  for  it  einerdny,  and  the  day  before-44  toug4.)--.Q.  And  this  is  the  nose  you  did  not  recollet  to  have  been  in  existence?  A.  If  I  Tentrid  have  (mind  it,  I  would  have  brought  it.—Q.  You  have  dune  all  .  von-could  to  find  it  ?  A.  I  have.--Q.  Did  you  never  say  you  had  destroyed.tlris  note  ?  -A.C9l.llamil  ton  told  me  to  tell  ertbry  thing  I  knew,  and  it)  destroy  nothing  I  might  have  rela relative  tive relative  to  thesullicet.—Q.  Did  he  not  tell  you  to  keep  that  paper  ?  Aud  every  other.  lie  tor  4  me  nut  to  destroy  a  single  note.  ..Q.  When  did  Colonel  Hamilton  take  a  'copy  of  that  note  ?  ut.  The  day  after  be  came  •to  town,  in  a  roffee.hou9e,  in  tsuuthasapton•rtimr.  Q.  De  you  not  recollect  stating  to  Colonel  Iflamiltosi  that  put  would  willingly  follow  his  advice,  but  that  he  would.  l  •very.  augry  with  you  to  hear  that  you  had  &amp;Strayed  it  i  A.  I  neverdid  say./  had  destroyed  Did  pot  you  tell  Colonel  Hamilton  that  Sou  had  sbewu  llajor  Tanyn  another  note?  A.  I  could  not,  because  I  had  not  ano anotlher...-Q.  tlher...-Q. anotlher...-Q.  When  did  you  see  this  paper  last  that  you  say  is  mis mislaid  laid mislaid  ?  A.  Five  or  six  days  ag0...-Q.  Where  In  my  own  _  -  that  occasion  ?  A.  Not  Om  I  to  any  heti  y  else  ?  A.  A.  Among  semc  other  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  ~~~_n  .  ,  FEB.  I.  papers  irt-my  When-ilitt  you  hist  put  it  in  your  bureau  with  your  other  papers?  A.  I  believe  five  or  Six  days  ago.  At  last  the  witness  admitted  that  be  bad  searched  the  bureau  without  finding  it.  Q.  By  Sir  S.  Rost  ILLY—What  reason  had  you,  in  your  former  exiamination,  to  refrain  from  making  known  such  a  paper  ?  A.  I  thought  it  a  very  unpleasant  circumstance  What  circum circumstance  stance circumstance  do  you  mean  was  unpleasant  ?  A.  The  whole  business  was  unpleasant,  and  I  wish  I  had  nothing  to  do  with  it.—Q.  When  you  spewed  Colonel  Hamilton  the  note,  did  you  read  it  I  A.  No.--.W  ben  he  took  a  copy  of  it,  did  you  read  it?  A.  No.  Q.  How  did  you  describe  it  to  Colonel  Hamilton  ?  A.  I  told  him  I  bad  a  note  respecting  Captain  Tonyn's  promotion.---Q.  Did  you  say  by  whom  it  was  written,  or  if  it  was  in  the  Duke  of  York's  handwriting?  A.  I  never  saw  his  Royal  Highness's  hand-writing.  Oa  being  further  pressed,  he  said  he  never  said  so.  The  witness  having  evidently  prevaricated,  and  appearing  to  be  reduced  to  considerable  embarrassment,  The  SPEAKER  rose,  and  having  moved  that  the  witness  with withdraw,  draw, withdraw,  observed,  that  there  was  ouly  one  course  the  Committee)  could,  ou  this  occasion,  pursue,  which  was  to  tied  the  witness  guilty  of  gross  prevarication  ;  he  therefore  moved,  That  it  is  the  opinion  of  the  Committee  that  the  witness  at  the  Bar  had  been  guilty  of  gross  prevarication  (  !Par  !  hear  !  hich  having  been  unanimously  agreed  to,  he  afterwards  moved,  That  the  House  be  resumed,  and  that  the  said  resolution  be  reported  forth 'forthwith.'  Mr.  Wharton  brought  up  the  Report,  which  was  agreed  to.  The  CHANCELLOR  of  the  EXCHEQUER  rentarked,  that  with  respectto  the  Report  there  could  be  only  one  opinion  in  the  House,  and  moved,  that  Captain  Sandon,  for  the  said  offence,  be  committed-to  the  Serjeant  at  Arms  in  attendance.  The  original  question  having  been  carried  without  opposition,  the  Speaker  gave  instructions  to  the  Serjeant  at  Arms,  to  take  Captain  Huxley  Sandon  into  custody,  and  to  prevent  all  com cominunicatioa.wish  inunicatioa.wish cominunicatioa.wish  the  prisoner.  The  Speaker  then  gave  orders  that  the  Serjeant  do  not  permi  t  any  person  whatever  to  have  access  to  Captain  Sandon.  The  CHANCELLOR  of  the  EXCHEQUER  then  moved,  That  the  Serjeaut  do  forthwith  cause  the  prisoner  to  be  taken  to  his  own  house,  and  search  to  be  there  made  for  a  paper,  in  which  mention  is  made  of  Tonn's  business.  Immediatety  after  this  motion,  the  Serjeant  again  appear(  d,  and  stated,  that  the  priz  , STYLE=superscript  oner  was  desirous  to  return  to  the  IS:ir,  as  having  something  to  submit  to  the  house.  The  CTIA  ttcvLi.o  ti  of  the  BIC  11EQV  utt  thought  it  very  de desirable  sirable desirable  that  the:priioner  should  again  be  called  in,  as  he  should  not  he  surprised  if  the  paper  io  question  were  found,  after  all,  in  his  pwiriess;on.  Captain  Sandon  was  accordingly  brought  to  the  Bar.  The  What  has  the  prisoner  to  suggest  to  the  House  Captain  Minion  then  said,  that  he  was  exceedingly  sorry  if  any  thing  he  had  said  had  displeased  the  House;  and  he  was  willing  to  submit  to  any  censure  the  house  might  inflict.  The  If  the  prisoner  has  any  more  to  offer,  the  House  are  ready  to  hear  Captain  Sandon  said,  the  letter  which  purported  to  be  from  the  i)uke  of  York  to  Mrs.  Clarke  was  not  destroyed;  it  was  in  his  possession  at  his  chambers,  and  if  the  House  required  its  production.  it  could  be  easily  procured.  As  to  the  contents  of  the  letter,  it  went  to  convey  that  Capt.  Tonyo  would  Not  ob obtain  tain obtain  his  preferment  unless  he  paid  a  sum  of  money  to  Mrs.  Clarke.  lie  had  sheaved  this  note  to  Captain  Tonyn,  who,  in  consequence,  agreed  to  the  terms,  was  ('azetted,  and  5001.  paid  to  Mrs.  Clark,  and  231.  to  Donovan.  This  letter  he  was  ready  to  fetch  to  the  House;  he  could  not  say  who  wrote  it;  but  lie  was  told  by  Mrs.  Clarke,  at  the  time  it  was  put  into  his  t  hands,  that  it  was  written  by  the  Duke  of  York.  The  Serjeant  was  ordered  to  do  his  duly,  agreeably  to  the  Re Resolution  solution Resolution  of  the  House.  Mrs.  Clarke  was  again  called  in,  and  examined  by  the  C  IIAN•  CELLOa  of  the  EXCIIEQUER.—Q.  I  wish  to  ask  the  witness,  with  regard  to  the  appointment  of  Captain  Tonyn,  whether  she  recollects  what  passed  between  her  and  Captain  Sandon,  in  consequence  of  Captain  Tonyn  expressing  impatience  at  the  delay  in  procuring  the  appointment  ?  A.  No;  I  really  do  not  recollect,  though  I  have  been  reading  Saudon's  evidence  on  the  subject  just  now.—Q.  Do  you  not  recollect  Captain  Sandon's  coming  to  you  at  all  on  the  subject  ?  A.  I  re recollect  collect recollect  he  was  employed  by  •  Captain  Touyn.—Q.  Do  you  re recollect  collect recollect  Sandon's  mentioning  Captain  Tonyn's  impatience?  A.  Mo.  Ido  not.—Q.  Was  it  not  said  that  Captain  Tonyn  would  withdraw  the  money  he  had  deposited,  if  the  delay  should  be  contiuued  tA.I  do  not  recollect  such  a  circa  mats  thoupbt.  •  P8_TB00018 --Q.  Did  aav  body  else  see  it  un  thal  •  recollect.-  o  a,  oasloesv  11  to  Q.W.ast?  A.  •  _  4OF  +  .  tv  74  ,  r•  bysc.  7j2  4  40 STYLE=superscript  !ei  f STYLE=superscript  rrt,  .  P8_TB00019 k...  t  , STYLE=superscript  I STYLE=superscript  t  1  1 STYLE=superscript  •  ..."
