text
"CI  111,  Monday  la  , STYLE=superscript  t  being  Easter  Monday,  the  Lord  Mayor  rereiyed  the  visits  of  several  of  the  Aldermen  and  their  Ladies,  together  with  a  number  of  other  distinguished  persons,  at  an  early  hour,  at  the  Mansion  House,  where  a  most  excellent  dejeune  was  pre prepared  pared prepared  for  their  refreshment.  At  eleven  o'clock  the  boys  helong7  ing  to  Christ's  Hospital,  each  separate  class  being  preceded  by  their  tutors,  and  each  boy  bearing  some  emblematic  iwig•nia  of  the  branch  of  learning  to  which  his  study  more  immediately  ap applied,  plied, applied,  walked  in  procession  to  the  Mansion  House,  where  they  were  most  kindly  received.  The  principal  Governors  of  thin  excellent  Institution,  the  Lord  Mayor,  Sheriffs,  &amp;c.  then  ac,  companied  the  boys  to  Christ's  Hospital,  where  they  heard  a  sermon  preached  by  the  Bishop  of  Oxford,  who  chose  his  text  from  the  10th  chap.  of  St.  Paul's  Epistle  to  the  Hebrews,  MI?  and  I,lth  verse,  In  the  evening  the  same  company,  together  w  is  li  several  of  the  Ministers,  the  patriotic  Spaniards.  and  other  rmi rmient  ent rmient  public  persons,  proceeded  to  the  Nlawion  If  owe  to  dienwr.  At  nine  o  clock  the  Lady  Mayoress  retired  h  the  ball-rooet.  The  ball  was  opened  by  the  Lady  Nlayoress  mid  she  Larl  +lf  Morton,  who  danced  a  graceful  minuet  ;  hot  the  hall  ,  room  ‘s  as  so  crowded  that  it  was  some  time  before  they  could  began  coon  , STYLE=superscript  try  dances.  COURT  OF  COMMON  COUNCIL.  The  subject  was  introduced  by  Mr.  Deputy  GoonnEurnr,  in  a  speech  of  considerable  length,  in  the  course  of  which  he  reviewed  the  conduct  of  successive  administrations,  aid  the  votos  of  maj  orities  in  Parliament  subject  to  their  influence  ;  and  as asserted'  serted' asserted'  the  right  which  the  Constitution  vested  in  the  ;lentil...,  legally  convened  ;  and  in  that  Court,  to  meet  anti  to  discus;  their.  grievances,  and  to  petition  each  or  all  the  hranches  of  the  Legislature  fur  redress.  Ile  adverted  to  various  instances  in  w  ich  questions  had  been  brought  forward  for  inquiring  into  public  abuses,  and  to  the  appointtneot  of  Committees  to  follow  up  such  inquiries  ;  hut  obset  ved,  that  Ministerial  influence  had  been  •eio  exerted,  as  to  divide  the  leaders  of  those  who  su STYLE=superscript  pp  or STYLE=superscript  t  ed STYLE=superscript  soon STYLE=superscript  motions,  and  to  defeat  the  operation  of  their  purposes.  The  re.ult  was  seen  in  the  defeat  of  every  effort  fur  the  reform  of  public  abuses,  and  the  detection  and  puuishment  of  public  delinquents.  He  therefore  conceived,  that  upon  no  occasion  were  the  thanks  of  this  Country,  or  of  that  Assembly  ,  more  deci decidedly  dedly decidedly  called  for,  than  by  th  e STYLE=superscript  conduct  of  dust,  individual  NTernher  of  Parliament,  who  hu4  the  courage  to  arraign  de-  In=  I  .  .  r  '  ;•'‘  •  ...„  IM  ~k  91  =  Y~•.  I  , STYLE=superscript  MI  MEI"
