text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER;  MARCII  1.2.  luring  and  commercial  people,  leaving  the  present  poli— political  tical political  situation  of  Europe  ont  of  the  questions  it  is  unque unquetionably  tionably unquetionably  the  interest  of  ours  to  enjoy  the  esteem,  the  con confidence,  fidence, confidence,  and  good  will  of  our  neighbours.  Every  circum circumstance  stance circumstance  eventual,  as  well  as  stationary,  fa.youred  our  preten pretensions  sions pretensions  in  this  respect.  They  were,  indeed,  so  strongly  in  our  favour,  that  it  required  a  studious  refinement,  a  long  con continuance  tinuance continuance  of  irritation,  to  alienate  the  continent  from  tin.:  country.  But  the  hardest  bodies  are  worn  by  collision  :  and  our  respective  4dministrations  have  ctlected  their  pur purpose,  pose, purpose,  in  the  course  of  fifteen  years,  so  completely  that  they  have  left  us  and  future  generations,  we  are  afraid,  an  eter.  nal  monument  of  their  capacity,  perseverance,  liberality,  and  spirit  of  conciliation.  Previous  to  the  commencement  of  the  revolutionary  war,  nothing  was  so  great  and  respectable  as/  the  word  the  different  languages  of  Europe  it  was  synonimous  with  every  thing  good  and  exalted;  and  af afforded  forded afforded  the  poet,  the  philosopher,  and  the  dramatic  writer,  their  noblest  images,  their  happiest  illustrations.  Our  least  amiable  singularities  furnished  a  theme  for  admiration  ;  and  even  our  real  defects  were  anxiously  excused,  were  studiously  extenuated.  Wherever  an  Englishman  appeared,  he  was  a  general  object  of  attention  and  services.—H  is  name  was  a  passport;  his  appearance  a  letter  of  recommenda recommendation.  tion. recommendation.  liven  France,  our  great  political  and  commercial  rival,  ranked,  for  more  than  half  a  century,  among;;  he  ioremost  of  our  admirers,  among  the  most  animated  of  o::r  panegyrists.  Our  institutions,  our  arms,  our  philosophy,  and  our  arts,  were  the  noblest  models  of  her  imitation,  the  most  fervent  objects  of  her  attainment.  If  a  change,  sup supposed  posed supposed  to  be  salutary,  was  proposed,  or  introduced  into  any  branch  of  the  Administration,  it  was  invariably  borrowed  from  our  customs.  fa  every  dispute  between  nation  and  nation,  we  were  referred  to  as  umpires;—the  oppressed  looked  up  to  us  as  avengers  ;  the  weak  as  protectors;  and  the  aggressor  dreaded  our  justice  and  resentment.  Such  was  our  character.  But  how  it  stands  now  we  have  already  developed.  It  must  be  a  curious,  as  it  is  certainly  a  momentousoub momentousoubject  ject momentousoubject  of  inquiry,  to  investigate  the  cause  of  this  alienation./  Before  we  proceed  further  we  will  preface  our  examination  by  declaring  that  it  solely  originates  in  ourselves,  and  that  it  still  operates  almost  exclusively  on  our  side  ;  making,  how how'ever,  'ever, how'ever,  a  trilling  allowapce  for  the  effee.ts  of  the  French  Re Revolution,  volution, Revolution,  too  imperceptible  almost  to  be  noticed.  The  first  symptoms  may  be  traced  to  tha  rapie.  and  excessive  increase  of  our  commercial  preponderiuce,  which  began  annost  immediately.  after  the  conclusion  ot'  the  American  War,  and  to  the  inordinate  desire  of  ;-,ecieliary  considera consideration  tion consideration  ‘•  hich  follov!ed.  This  sudden  !teritiati  revolutionise',  ill  some  uneasure,  our  pursuits,  charaeter  :tad  polities.—  lov'e  of  glory  became  secondary  to  a  love  of  money  ;  and  u,  every  object  of  national  pursnik.  we  began  to  cal calea,;.tro,  ea,;.tro, calea,;.tro,  with  . STYLE=superscript  mercantile  ini,  - STYLE=superscript  .ll  . STYLE=superscript  ,eness  and  anxiety,  the  loss  and  the  gain  we  were  likely  to  incur.  From  that  moment  those  -hot::  and  hazardous  combinations,  which  are  peculiar  to  a  community  animated  e.ith  all  ardour  for  freedom  and  glory,  in  preference  to  moaey,  began  to  disappear  from  our  conneds  and  operations,  and  we  ventured  on  small  and  various  spec.ulw.ion:•,;  that  if  one  tailed,  another  might  he  proilne,ive.  A  unity  of  action  and  will  immediately  ceased,  and  the  national  energy  diverged  into  various  di directions.  rections. directions.  In  consequence  of  this  system,  we  lorded  it  over  Nabobs  and  unarmed  Indians,  and  conquered  spice-islands  and  sugar-plantations  !  whilst  the  enemy  was  demolishing  those  formidable  barriers,  which  the  wisdom  and  energy  of  our  forefathers  had  exerted  and  maintained.  Instead  of  those  great  and  decisive  battles,  which  were  fought  under  M  A  imtmitouGit,  onr  soldiers  were  engaged  in  some  petty  skirmish  on  the  Ganges  or  the  La  Fiala,  at  the  very  time  that  iimumerahle  armies  were  contending  on  the  Danube,  the  Po,  and  the  Sant,  for  the  domiaion  of  Europe.  Na Nations  tions Nations  and  men  sink,  or  rise,  iu  the  estimation  of  their  P2_TB00010 ♦+  1"
