text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  245  falter  upon  us  at  a  moment  when  national  prosperity  being  at;  height  not  before  attained,  the  contrast  remitting  from  thischange  has  been  rendered  the  more  striking.  Under  the  benign  influ influence  ence influence  of  our  ftepublican  inmitutions,  aid  the  maintenance  of  peace  %%ill*  all  nations,  whilst  SII  of  theta  were  engagedsin  bloody  and  wasteful  wars,  the  fruits  of  a  just  policy  were  en enjoyed  joyed enjoyed  in  an  unrivaJled  growth  of  our  faculties  mot  resources.—  Proofs  of  this  uere  seen  in  the  improvements  of  agriculture;  in  the  successful  enterprizes  of  commerce  ;  in  the  progress  of  manufactures  and  useful  arts  ;  to  the  increase  of  the  public  re revenues,  venues, revenues,  and  the  use  made  of  it  in  reducing  the  public  debt,  and  in  the  valuable  works  and  establishments  every  w  here  multiply multiplying.  ing. multiplying.  over  the  face  of  our  land.  It  is  a  precious  reflection,  that  the  transition  from  this  pro!  , STYLE=superscript  perous  condition  of  our  countrv,  to  the  scene  which  has  for  some  time  been  distressing  us.  is  not  chargeable  on  any  unwarrantable  views,  nor,  as  trust,  on  any  involuntary  errors  in  the  Public  Councils,  Indulging  no  passions  which  trespass  on  the  rights  or  the  repose  of  other  nations,  it  has  been  Ow  true  glory  of  the  United  States  to  cultivate  peace  by  observing  justice,  and  to  en entitle  title entitle  themselves  to  the  respect  of  the  nations  at  war,  by  fulfilling  their  neutral  obligations  w  ill;  the  most  scrupulous  importialitN  .  If  there  be  candour  in  the  world,  the  truth  of  these  asser assertions  tions assertions  will  not  be  questioned,  Posterity,  at  least,  will  do  justice  to  them.  This  nnexceptinnable  course  could  not  avail  against  the  in.  Justice  and  violence  of  the  Bellivrent  Powers.  In  their  rage  against  each  other.  or  impelled  by  more  direct  motives,  principles  of  retaliat  ion  have  been  introduced,  equally  contrary  to  universal  reason  and  acknowledged  law.  How  lung  their  arbitrary  edicts  will  be  continued,  in  spite  of  the  demonstrations,  that  not  even  a  pretext  for  them  has  been  given  by  the  United  States,  and  of  the  fair  and  liberal  attempts  to  induce  a  revocation  of  them,  can cannot  not cannot  be  anticipated.  Assuring  myself  that,  under  every  vicissitude,  the  determined  spirit  and  united  councils  of  the  nation  w  ill  he  safe-guards  to  its  honour  and  its  essential  interests,  I  repair  to  the  post  assigned  me,  with  no  other  discouragement  than  w  hat  springs  from  my  own  inadequacy  to  its  high  duties.  If  Ido  nut  sink  under  the  weight  of  this  deep  conviction,  it  is  because  l  find  some  support  in  a  consciousness  of  the  purposes,  and  a  confidence  in  the  prin principles,  ciples, principles,  which  I  bring  with  me  into  this  arduous  service.  To  cherish  peace  and  friendly  intercoorse  with  all  nations,  haying  correspondent  dispositions;  to  maintain  sincere  neutra neutrality  lity neutrality  towards  Belligerent  Nations  ;  to  prefer  in  all  eases  amicable  discussion  and  reasonable  accommodation  of  differences,  to  a  decision  of  them  by  an  appeal  to  arms  ;  to  exclude  foreign  in intrigues  trigues intrigues  and  foreign  partialities,  to  degraliog  to  all  countries,  and  so  baneful  to  free  ones  ;  to  foster  a  spirit  of  inde independence,  pendence, independence,  too  just  to  invade  the  rights  of  others,  too  proud  to  surrender  our  own,  too  literal  to  indulge  unworthy  prejudices  ourselves,  and  too  elevated  not  to  look  done  upon  them  in  others  ;  to  hold  the  anion  of  the  States  as  the  basis  of  their  peace  and  floppiness  ;  to  !rapport  4he  consti constitution  tution constitution  which  is  the  cement  of  the  lotion,  as  well  in  its  limitations,  as  in  its  authorities  ;  to  respect  the  riglrts  and  authorities  re reserved  served reserved  to  the  States,  and  to  the  people,  as  equally  incorporated  with,  and  essentiu  I  to  the  success  oft  he  general  system;  to  avoid  the  slightest  interference  with  the  rights  of  conscience,  or  the  functions  of  religion,  so  wisely  exempted  from  civil  jurisdic jurisdiction;  tion; jurisdiction;  to  preserve  in  their  full  energy  the  otloq  salutary  provi provisions  sions provisions  in  behalf  of  private  and  personil  rights,  and  of  the  free freedom  dom freedom  of  the  press;  to  observe  ectmonly  in  ',oldie  expenditures;  to  liberate  t  he  nubile  resources  by  anbonati  rattle  dischar  ;  :,e  tif  the  public  debts;  to  keep  within  the  requisite  limits  a  standing  mili military  tary military  force,  always  remembering,  that  au  armed  and  trained  mili militia  tia militia  is  the  firmest  bulwark  of  Republican  (f.tveruments;  that  with without  out without  standing  armies  their  liberty  can  never  he  in  clanger;  nor,  with  large  ones,  safe;  to  promote  b  y  ,  auohnrif  , STYLE=superscript  ed  menus  friendly  to  agriculture,  to  manufactures,  and  es  let  nal  as  w.•it  as  internal  commerce  :  to  favor,  in  like  manner,  the  advancement  of  science  and  the  diffusion  of  information  as  the  best  aliment.  to  true  li liberty  berty liberty  ;  to  carry  on  the  benevolent  plans  which  have  been  so  meritoriously  applied  to  the  conservation  of  our  aboriginal  neighbours  from  the  degredation  and  wretchedness  of  si.vage  life,  to  a  participation  of  the  improvements  of  which  the  bunion  mind  and  manners  are  susceptible  in  a  civilized  state.  As  far  :Ls  sentiments  and  intentions  such  as  these  can  aid  the  fulfilment  of  my  duty,  they  will  he  a  resource  which  cannot  fail  me.  It  is  my  good  fortune,  moreover,  to  have  the  patio  in  which  I  am  to  tread  lighted  by  examples  of  illustrious  services,  successfully  rendered  in  the  umst  trying  difficulties  by  those  who  have  marched  before  to  t  e.  Of  those  of  my  immediate  prederea.  'or  ;  it  might  least  t,teconte  me  here  to  speak—i  may,  •  however  P5_TB00014 4"
