text
"MARCH  12.  they  were  presented  to  the  House,  and  were  examined  by  a  Se Se-I.et  -I.et Se-I.et  Committee,  appointed  for  that  purpose,  they  'were  put  into  the  hands  of  Mrs.  Clarke.  Nature  would  at  once  show  how  far  and  in  what  manner,  She  was  qtrected.  Ile  had  seen  simpli simplicity  city simplicity  go  through  the  most  arduous  examination  clearly  and  cor correctly,  rectly, correctly,  but  he  had  never  known  design  to  succeed.  In  the  ease  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  it  was  hut  World  for  her,  on  procurito  , STYLE=superscript  the  hang-writing  of  General  Clayecing,  which  she  had  imagined  was  destroyed,  to  smile,  when  she  felt  that  that  writing  was  to  clear  her  character  front  the  imputation  of  falsehood  cast  on  it  by  the  testimony  of  that  gentleman.  lle  watched  her  counte countenance,  nance, countenance,  hut  saw  no  other  expression.  Could  this  be  attri attributed  buted attributed  to  a  preconcerted  conspiracy  ?  The  next  point  in  which  it  is  attempted  to  he  proved  that  she  had  prevaricated  In  her  evidence,  wits  that  in  which  she  had  denied  having  passed  as  the  wife  of  Mr.  Fowler.  This  assertion  was  disproved  by  whom?  Hy  Nichols,  who  had  proved,  by  the  baseness  of  his  conduct,  in  retaining  in  his  possession  the  letter  entrusted  to  him  to  destroy,  that  he  was  himself  unworthy  of  belief,  as  it  was  evident  his  object  for  keeping  them  was  to  extort  money  from  Mrs.  Clarke  hereafter,  by  threatening  to  poblish  them.  It  was  of  little  or  no  importance;  for  if  we  looked  hack  to  our  own  youthful  days,  we  should  probably  recol recollect  lect recollect  that  we  had  stiled  the  partner  for  the  night  our  wife,  who  was  in  fact  no  wife  at  afl  ;  and  that,  in  the  course  of  Our  amusement,  we  have  gone  h  names  foreign  from  our  real  and  actual  titles.  The  assertion,  Whether  true  or  false,  was  immaterial  ;  and  if  it  was  in  a  case  of  life  and  death,  he  de dedared  dared dedared  to  God  it  would  not  in  his  mind  invalidate  the  testimony  of  the  Witness.  At  the  court-martial  she  was  also  described  as  a  widow,  and  %vas  examined  as  such,  ilia  was  not  asked  a  ques question  tion question  on  the  subject,  consequently  there  was  no  conduct  of  her's  on  that  occasion  that  could  warrant  a  charge  of  falsehood.  Of  the  twenty-seven  remaining  cases,  the  Right  Min.  Gentleman  had  not  been  able  to  prove  any  one.  The  lion.  Gentleman  thijh  y  f  Tet  through  the  several  cases  brought  forward  by  Mr.  Wardle,  on  the  respective  merits  of  which  he  descanted  in  the  most  clo clointent  intent clointent  and  able  manner,  asserting,  that  from  the  clearness  of  the  evidence  adduced,  and  the  presilmntive  inferences  that  must  he  drawn  from  the  various  details,  that  he  should  with  the  most  per perfect  fect perfect  conviction  of  the  justness  and  impartiality  of  his  decision,  i•ole  for  the  Resolutions  proposed  by  his  Honourable  Friend  t  'lr.  Wardle)  to  whom  he  paid  the  most  distinguished  compli compliment  ment compliment  for  his  zeal  and  efficiency  during  the  whole  of  the  long  and  arduous  examination.  •  The  ArronN  rr  (ir.NETt.  .1  spoke  at  considerable  length  it  stlpport  of  the  first  resolution  of  M  i STYLE=superscript  r.  Ilerce‘al;  and  against  the  original  motion.—Adjourned.  -  Friday,  March  10..  COLONEL.  ItENCIL  ' STYLE=superscript  S  LEVY.  Mr.  IlcsNv  . STYLE=superscript  soN  . STYLE=superscript  moved  fur  certain  Papers  respecting  the  Levy  of  t  7 STYLE=superscript  olontgl  French.  The'  Hon.  Cent.  then  moved  fur  an  account  of  the  several  charged  a;;;ainst  0)N-eminent  on  ac account  count account  of  Colonel  French's  Lev  v.  The  motion  was  agreed  to,  :..nd  the  lion.  tientle.nan  afterwards  brought  op  the  account,  w  hie!)  was  laid  on  the  table.  DUKE  OV  YORK.  Mr.  B‘vus.  I  am  Wot  . STYLE=superscript  the  man  to  throw  the  broad  shield  of  flattery  and,  servility  over  any  corrupt  practices  in  public  men,  .it  is  my  avowed  opinion  that  such  corrupt  practic  e STYLE=superscript  s  in STYLE=superscript  such STYLE=superscript  men STYLE=superscript  ::.hould  be  branded  «ith  greater  infamy  in  proportion  to  their  greater  mischiefs.  I  can  never,  therefore,  allow  that  the  rank  of  the  ()Wender,  be  it  ever  so  exalted,  should  screen  him  personally  from  the  ptmishment  and  infamy  which  should  avail  his  criminal  acts.  In  this  point  of  view,  rVery  one  must  be  sensible  that  his  Royal  nighties-.  !  . STYLE=superscript  root  his  princely  rank  and  connection  ., STYLE=superscript  ,  could  not  stand  he!'4lre  that  tiowe  as  an  individual_  It  would,  in  a  degr  , STYLE=superscript  '('  at  le;1  1 STYLE=superscript  ,  atrcet  the  public  estimation,  and  the  public  re,:reet  for  Vie  reigning  family  ;  and  in  these  time:,  nothing  WO  , STYLE=superscript  !  , STYLE=superscript  0  he  dreaded  as  this  diminution  front  the  respect  due  to  sot.ereign  how-  es,  through  all  their  branches.  1,  for  one,  therefore,  Sir,  heard  this  Inquiry  proposed  with  reluctance,  and  saw  it  proceed  in  the  form  and  manner  in  w  hich  it  has  proceeded,  with  the  most  profound  regret.  Circumstances,  however,  have  now  changed  ;  the  matter  has  been  brought  forward,  and  having  been  so  pro produced,  duced, produced,  it  now  becomes  a  paramount  duty  with  tin'  House,  to  discharge  the  part  which  belong:to  it.  Under  these  impression:,  I  shall  not  deem  it  necessary  to  qualify  my  sentiments,  and  ,hall  therefore  proceed  to  give  any  opinion  on  the  caw,  as  it  171  stands,  on  its  own  merits.  The  Honourable.  Gentleman  by  my  bide  (Mr.  Bathurst)  very  property  suggested  to  the  House,  in  the  debate  of  last  night,  that  the  Address,  as  propieied  by  the  Chau,  cellor  of  the  Exchequer,  iecluded  (tidy  two  members  of  the  ge general  neral general  charge,  that  is  to  say,  personal  corruption  and  criminal  connivance.  My  Honourable  Ft  ietel  e  cry  justly  added,  that  there  was  a  third  point,  he  bay  ing  granted  away  the  places  aid  appointments  of  his  °dice,  under  undue  infhwece.  My  Hon.  Friend  stated,  at  the  same  time,  that  this  undue  influence  was  as  directly  pernicion:  to  the  spirit  aed  character  of  the  a;  my,  as  ever  the  alleged  personal  corruption  and  commercial  connivance.  Mould  not  such  an  opittion,  it  . STYLE=superscript  generally  current  in  the  army,  and  generally  current  it  was,  most  totally  destroy  - STYLE=superscript  all  that  spirit  and  emulation,  which  in  the  army,  as  iu  (very  thing  else,  was  necessary  to  excellence  ?  1  must  fully,  there:sore,  adopt  this  ad additional  ditional additional  point  of  in  Honourable  Friend.  There  is  still  another  point,  a  fourth  point,  to  w  hich  I  must  call  the  attention  of  the  House,  as  to  my  mind,  and  to  that  of  many  of  my  Honourable  Friends,  it  has  very  considerable  weight  ;  1  mean  the  offence  against  puhlic  morals,  in  the  scandalous  and  unbectening  con connection  nection connection  acknowledged  by  his  Royal  Highness.  Whatever  ell'ect ell'ected  ed ell'ected  the  State,  either  directly  or  censequentially,  was  within  the  province  of  that  'louse,  and  no  one  w  ill,  1  hope,  deny,  that  this  open  adulterous  connection  had  been  without  Some  detriment  to  the  official  dischar:re  of  the  ditties  of  the  Commander  in  Chief.  ith  this  view  of  the  subject,  therefore,  1  intend  to  conclude  my  Motion  with  an  Address  sti  framed  as  may  include  all  these  point..  and  thus  enable  the  House  to  Cool('  lo  a  decision,  w  be bether  ther bether  his  Royal  Highness  ha  been  guilty  of  such  personal  cor corruption,  ruption, corruption,  such  criminal  connivance,  end  of  havine  acted  tinder  such  undue  influence.  These  will  be  the  main  points  of  wnat  have  to  propose.  1  come  now  to  say  a  few  v.  tads  on  the  case  itself.  There  appears  to  me  to  be  Oa  ee  or  fintr  ponds  in  the  es  i idence  dence idence  which  bring  it  home  to  his  Royal  II  ighness  ;  the  Ist  is,  ilia  Taylor.  I  do  not  mean  io  say,  that  this  person's  testi  inoey  is  alto altogether  gether altogether  unsuspicious,  though  I  terteinly  w  ill  not  b.')  to  the  teneth  of  saving,  on  the  other  hand,  that  there  is  enough  to  iityalidate  or  even  to  weaken  it.  ow,  let  any  Gentleman  consider  for  a  moment  the  word  which  she  alle  t  eal  the  Deke  to  have  spoken,  and  l  thiiik  on  the  very  interval  evidence  of  these  w  ord3,  he  will  have  no  doubt  but  that  his  Roy  at  Hielmess  di:l  sn  speak  them.  To  in,  mind  they  have  all  the  characters  of  truth,  all  the  little  circumstances  wlt  ich  ,  in  questions  of  this  nature,  speak  more  powerfully  than  volumes.  ll'  Miss  Taylor  l  a  id  beets  a  conspirator  witii  Yl  Es.  Clarke,  she  would  have  reinteabereti  many  more  cons  e  ut  , STYLE=superscript  ations,  she  allid  'Well  pi  escut  at  many  mere  unreserved  communications.  This  circunisiauce  ;done  is  sun:-  Omit  to  me  that  Miss  Taylor's  evidence  is  here  to  be  received  as  genuine,  amid  w  hen  I  add  this  coosiderati  on  to  the  internal  testi testimony  mony testimony  of  the  words  themselves,  l  can  really  nave  no  doubt  but  that  such  words  were  spoken  by  his  Roy-al  loteAs.  The  twat  circumstance  which  certainly  brings  the  matter  home  to  leas  Royal  Highness,  is,  the  in\  sterioas  note,  as  it  had  been  called,  but  a  note  on  w  Inc  It  no  one,  I.  believe  call  now  entertain  any  doubt.  If  the  note  had  been  a  foreery,  it  tv  mei  have  been  more  direct,  more  completely  to  the  purpose.  It.  would  have  left  nothing  to  doubt.  The  note  (114:1Criei'e  lo  m  y  mind,  a  eeneine  note;  and  I.  Call  have  no  doubt  but  that  it  was  seat  by  the  Duke  of  l'ork  to  Alt...  Clarke,  for  th  a  puroose  of  sliewing  Major  Tony  n.  Under  these  circuinstames.,  theta  what  was  the  necessary  inference?  1t  lay,  it  at  least  proved  that  there  was  an  unrest  reiecd  intercourse  itad  conVelea  •  lion  between  Mrs.  Clarke  and  his  EZ  oyal  I  I  igheegs  the  subject  of  military  matters,  anti  this  couversatieo  and  intercourse  is  what  I  !neon  by  meltee  iotluence.  cal  Clavering's  letter  is  of  the  same  general  tenderer.  It  tau,  French's  levy  cad  the  same  strong  probability  inherent  oa  the  face  of  it,  —it  was  indirectly  cootioned  by  beters,  w  hich  were  , STYLE=superscript  o:elt  accidentally  discovered,  and  seized.  I  inust  avquit  his  Ito\  al  airy  personal  corruption,  but  I  cannot  acquit  him  of  sonwthiug  approachiog  to  frit:Ho:A  roolii%aufe.  Under  this  int  pression,  Sir,  I  shall  move  aim;  all  Address  be  presented  to  his  ajesty,  humbly  representing  to  him,  that  the  House  haying  duly*  examined  all  the  charges  produced  Oefore  them,  and  the  evidence  in  suepurt  of  them,  coneolered  it  as  their  duty  to  state  to  his  Majesty,  that  the  corrupt  practice:  alleged  had  existed  ;  but  that  this  House  has  the  satisfaction  to  state,  that  there  dees  no  t  appear  any  proof  that  his  It  o)al  lligluness  the  Commateler  in  Chief  Leis  guilty  either  of  personal  corruption,  or  of  a  direct  criminal  connivance.  That  furthermore.  in  the  execution  of  their  duty,  in  eNaininioe  . STYLE=superscript  the  evidence,  the  House  have  had  the  satisfaction  to  discover  the  excellent  condition  of  the  artit  . STYLE=superscript  under  I  P11_TB00009 1,  P11_TB00010 MARCH  12.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  171  •',  .  .  .  .  •  .  they  were  presented  to  the  House,  and  were  examined  by  a  Se  - STYLE=superscript  stands,  on  its  own  merits.  The  Honourable  Gentleman  by  my  •  .;  -  i  e  I.ct  Committee,  appointed  for  that  purpose,  they  'were  put  into  bide  (Mr.  Bathurst)  very  properly  suggested  to  the  house,  in  the  0.  the  hands  of  Mrs.  Clarke.  Nature  would  at  once  show  how  debate  of  last  nig  ht,  that  the  Address,  as  proposed  by  the  Chao-  oi  what  tar  and  in  n  manner,  She  was  affreted.  lie  had  seen  simpli-  cellor  of  the  Ex  chequer,  included  only  two  member;  of  the  -e-  ;  1  city  go  through  the  most  arduous  examination  clearly  and  cur-  neral  charge,  that  is  to  say,  personal  corruption  and  climatal  i,  -s.  redly,  hut  he  had  never  known  design  to  succeed.  In  the  ease  conn  i  vance.  - STYLE=superscript  My  honourable  Ii  leo,l  1  ery  justly  ended,  that  .  .1:  0 STYLE=superscript  •  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  it  was  hut  World  for  her,  on  procuring  there  was  a  third  point,  he  ha%  lug  “Tamed  away  the  places  a  nd  i't  6  the  haoil-writing  of  General  Clattering,  which  she  bad  imagined  .  app  o  intments  o  f  h  is  „  t  h  ee  ,  mu  t  er  undue.  i  n  o  nence  .  Ah  .  Hon.  I  . STYLE=superscript  vas  destroyed,  to  smile,  when  bhe  felt  that  that  writing  was  to  I  Friend  stated,  at  the  same  time,  that  this  undue  influence  was  - STYLE=superscript  S  , STYLE=superscript  il  clear  her  character  from  the  Imputation  of  falsehood  cast  nn  it  as  directly  pernicious  to  the  ,pint  al.(1  eltaratter  o  f  the  a;  my,  as  by  the  testimony  of  that  gentleman.  lie  watched  her  counte-  ever  the  alleged  •••t  . STYLE=superscript  •  d  •  •  •  •••11  •••  ,  -  .  'l,  e  per  s  onalt•to  i  it?  ion  an  t  oni  nit  it•n  (Aleuts  amt.  •  stance,  hut  saw  no  other  expression.  Could  this  h STYLE=superscript  e  attri-  11  ould  not  such  an  ()  pillion,  ji  generally  curator  in  the  army,  1  bitted  to  a  preconcerted  conspiracy  ?  The  next  p  oint STYLE=superscript  in  and  generally  current  it  was,  most  totally  destroy  - STYLE=superscript  all  that  spirts  ''  0  1  which  it  is  attempted  to  he  proved  that  she  had  prevaricated  i  and  emulation,  which  in  the  army,  as  ill  every  thing  else,  was  In  her  evidence,  wit.s  that  in  which  she  had  denied  having  passed  necessary  to  excelleace  ?  1  must  fully,  t  here:ore,  adopt  this  ad-  as  .  ,  the  wife  of  Mr.  powler.  This  assertion  was  disproved  ditional  point  of  my  honourable.  Friend.  There  is  still  another  i  by  whom  ?  By  Nichols,  who  had  proved,  by  the  baseness  of  i  point,  a  fourth  point,  to  w  hich  I  must  call  the  attention  of  the  -  i  his  condtict,  in  retaining  in  his  possession  the  letter  entrusted  i  !louse,  as  to  my  mind,  and  to  that  of  many  of  my  Honourable  to  him  to  destroy,  that  he  was  himself  unworthy  of  belief,  o  Friends,  it  has  very  considerable  weight  ;  I  mean  the  offence  il STYLE=superscript  as  it  was  evident  his  object  for  keeping  them  was  to  extort  against  public  morals,  in  the  scandalous  and STYLE=superscript  unbecirming  con-  i  .  money  from  Mrs.  Clarke  hereafter,  by  threatening  to  publish  nection  acknowledged  by  his  Royal  Highness.  Whatever  effect-  .i  them.  It  was  of  little  or  no  importance;  for STYLE=superscript  if STYLE=superscript  we STYLE=superscript  looked STYLE=superscript  led STYLE=superscript  thn STYLE=superscript  State, STYLE=superscript  either STYLE=superscript  directly  or  censequentially,  Was  within  th  e  back  to  our  own  youthful  days,  we  should  probably  recoi-  I  province  o  f STYLE=superscript  that STYLE=superscript  House, STYLE=superscript  and STYLE=superscript  no STYLE=superscript  one  w  ill,  1  hope,  deny,  that  this  lect  that  we  had  stiled  the  partner  for  t  he STYLE=superscript  ni STYLE=superscript  g  h STYLE=superscript  t  our STYLE=superscript  wife, STYLE=superscript  I  o STYLE=superscript  p  en STYLE=superscript  adulterous STYLE=superscript  connection STYLE=superscript  had  liven  V  idiots:  Some  detriment  to  vlio  was  in  fact  no  wife  at  141  ;  and  that,  in  the  course  of  1  the STYLE=superscript  o  ffi  cial  discharge  of  the  duties  of  the  Commander  in  Chia.  our  ammement,  we  have  gone  11  names  foreign  from  our  real  ;  With  this  view  of  the  subject,  therefore,  1  intead  to  conclude  and  actual  titles.  The  asserti  m STYLE=superscript  on,  Whether  true  or  false,  was  '  my'  Motion  with  an  Addrcss  tits  framed  as  may  include  all  these  1  1 STYLE=superscript  !  i  ..  '  •  irOlnaterial  ;  and  if  it  was  in  a  case  of  life  and  death,  he  de.  point..  and  thus  enable  the  House  to  come  to  a  decision,  n  he-  .  ,  dared  to  God  it  would  not  in  his  mind  invalidate  the  testimony  titer  his  Royal  Highness  has  been  guilty  of  sorb  personal  car-  of  the  Witness.  At  the  court-martial  she  was  also  described  as  ruption,  such  criminal  connivance,  awl  of  Inivin:;  acted  under  a  widow,  and  %vas  examined  as  such,  but  was  not  asked  a  t  ine:-  such  undue  influence.  These  will  he  the  main  points  of  wnat  I.  )  flint  on  the  subjeet,  consequently  there  was  no  conduct  of  her's  have  to  propose.  1  come  now  to  say  a  few  V.  tads  on  the  case  on  that  occasion  that  could  Warrant  a  charge  of  fal STYLE=superscript  s  ehood. STYLE=superscript  Of  itself.  There  appears  to  me  to  be  int  oe  or  four  polio,  in  thee\  i-  t  1  the  twenty-seven  remaining  cases,  the  Right  IlOn.  Gentleman  (dice  which  bring  it  home  to  his  Royal  flightless  :  the  Ist  is,  Miss  had  not  Ist  en  able  to  prove  any  one.  The  lion.  Gentleman  th  t  ik  Taylor.  Ido  not  moan  1 STYLE=superscript  0  say,  that  this  person's  testi  away  euglli  of  is  alto-  1  viTnt  through  the  several  cases  brought  forward  by  Mr.  Wardle,  get  her  unsuspicious,  though  I  tertf:inly  w  ill  not  1..0  to  the  t  ,  on  the  respective  merits  of  which  he  descanted  in  the  most STYLE=superscript  clos  saying,  on  the  o  ther  ham!,  that  there  is  enonsa  to  invalidate  it,  A.  ),  intent  and  able  nuinner,  asserting,  that  from  the  clearness  of  the  or  even  to  weaken  it.  `,  uw,  let  any  Gentleman  consider  for  a  I  evidence  adduced,  and  the  preslimptive  inferences  that  must  he  moment  the  words  which  she  ally  ed  the  flake  to  have  spoken,  '  lel  drawn  from  the  various  details,  that  he  should  with  the  most  per-  and  l  thiiik  on  the  very  internal  evidence  of  these  w  ord3,  he  feet  conviction  of  the  justness  and  impartiality  of  his  decision,  •  will  have  no  doubt  but  that  his  Loyal  nielmess  did  so  .  1.  :.ate  for  the  ftesolutions  proposed  *by  his  Honourable  Friend  speak  them.  To  in  mind  th.sy  have  all  the  charat•ters  of  truth,  t  Mr.  Wardle)  to  whom  he  paid  the  most  distinguished  coition-  all  the  little  circumstances  whit•ii,  in  questions  of  this  nature,  „  I  Went  for  his  zeal  and  efficiency  during  the  whole  of  the  long  and  speak  more  powerfully  than  volumes.  if  Miss  Taylor  h  ad STYLE=superscript  b STYLE=superscript  e  e STYLE=superscript  n  Irdttons  examination,  •  The  GrNrnet  T.  spoke  at  considerable  length  iil  t  snpport  °Ethel:test  resolution  of  M  i STYLE=superscript  r.  Berm  al,  an  .  wt.  3  ...--.  d  •i•  in  t  the  a STYLE=superscript  iatty  more  conversations,  she  w  o STYLE=superscript  u  ld STYLE=superscript  been STYLE=superscript  p  i STYLE=superscript  esent STYLE=superscript  at STYLE=superscript  man STYLE=superscript  y  innre; STYLE=superscript  unreserved  communications.  This  circunistaoce  ;done  is  soil.-  cietst  to  me  that  Al  iss  la.\  lor's  evidence  is  here  to  be  received  as  Ouiginal  inotion.—A4journed.  genuine,  and  when  I  add  this  consideration  to  the  internal  testi-  •  f  l. STYLE=superscript  -  Triday,  March  la.  ninny  of  the  words  themselves  , STYLE=superscript  1 STYLE=superscript  can  r  eall STYLE=superscript  y  have STYLE=superscript  no STYLE=superscript  doubt STYLE=superscript  but STYLE=superscript  that  such  words  were  spoken  by  his  It  oyal  I  1  i;•lnfest  , STYLE=superscript  .  The  nest  11  . STYLE=superscript  COLONEL  FRENCH  ' STYLE=superscript  S  LEVY.  circumstance  which  certainly  brings  the  matter  home  to  his  ,  Mr.  llesistssox  moved  for  certain  Papers  respecting  the STYLE=superscript  Royal  Highness.,  is,  the  mvsterions  note,  as  it  had  beet]  called,  4  4 STYLE=superscript  Levy  of  Colonel  French.  The'  Hon.  Gent.  then  moved  fur  an  .  bast  a  note  on  u  hie  It  no  one,  I.  believe  can  tinw  entertain  ••  ;  I  ,  account  of  the  several  sums  charged  against  Government  on  ac  - STYLE=superscript  any  doubt.  If  the  note  had  been  a  foreetv,  it  iyiiiiii  v.  count  of  Colonel  Vrenelk's  Levy.  l'he  motion  was  agreed  to,  I  hare'  been  more  direct,  more  completely  to  the  porpow.  It.  end  the  lion.  Gentleman  afterwards  brought  up  the  account,  II  would  h  ave  l  e  f  t  11  ,  1  1  h  i  to  d  ou  b  t.  Th  e  note  t  l  e  .  tet  e  n  ,  to  my  '.s  It  was  laid  on  the  table.  II  mied,  is  strictly  a  eenaiih.  note;  and  1  can  have  no  douht  but  •  DUKE  or  VORK.  11  that  it  was  sem  by  the  Duke  of  York  to  a  11...  Clarke,  for  th  e  .  Mr.  B  s  eus.  I  am  niit  . STYLE=superscript  the  man  to  t STYLE=superscript  h  row STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  broad STYLE=superscript  shield STYLE=superscript  of  ° STYLE=superscript  I  purpose  Of  spraying  Major  Tony  le,  Under  these  eircuinstaneos,  flattery  nod,  servility  over  any  corrupt  practices  in  public  men,  li  Oleo,  what  was  the  necessary  inference  ?  \\  hy,  it  at  least  't  .it  is  my  avowed  opinion  that  Snell  corrupt  practices  ill  such  men  i  I  proved  that  there  was  an  unrestraiard  iotercourse  itud  eanversa  should  be  hranded  with  greater  infamy  in  proportion  tot  Lion  between  Mrs.  Clarke  and  his  R  oyal  Ilighaess  en  their  greater  mischiefs.  1  can  never,  therefore,  allow  the  subject  of  military  matters,  anti  this  coliversati.,o  that  the  rank  of  the  ()Wender,  be  it  ever  so  exalted,  should  and  intercourse  is  what  1  meal]  by  audios  iotioence.  l;er,  -  ri,  l  ig STYLE=superscript  screen  him  personally  from  the  puoishment  and  infamy  which  rat  Clavering's  letter  is  of  the  stink!  general  Iv:Mercy.  It  ',toy  should  avail  his  criminal  acts.  In  this  point  of  vice,  every  .I.'  reach's  ley)  eat'  the  same  strong  probability  inherent  a  (hi-  nny  must  be  sensible  that  his  Rural  nighties-.  !  . STYLE=superscript  roto  his  face  of  it,  —it  was  indirectly  co:dime-a  by  le•ters,  w  hich  wet.,  princely  rank  and  connection:,  could  not  stand  hie'ere  that  0:11  lied  deal  ail  discovered,  and  seized.  I  mos;  remilit  bi  s  It  o  \  a  l  ii  ,i  •  lft  i STYLE=superscript  t  . STYLE=superscript  IN'  , STYLE=superscript  llowe  as  an  individual.  It  w  t STYLE=superscript  oa  d, STYLE=superscript  in STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  degr‘  at  least,  Highness  of  an:.  personal  corruption,  but  I  cannot  acquit  him  of  0:  affect  the  public  estimation,  and  the  public  re,:peet  for  sotneihiug  a  pproacitiog  to  mint  in.:i  roanivaufe.  Under  this  int  it'  Vie  reigning  family  ;  and  in  these  times,  nothing  was  so  .:....1  hto  pression,  Sir,  I  shall  move  &amp;ha;  an  Aildress  la,  presented  t  o  his  1  1  .  Al  ajesty,  humbly  representing  10  h  I  al,  that  the  house  having  duly  be  dreaded  as  this  diminution  front  the  re  s STYLE=superscript  p  ect STYLE=superscript  due STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  sot.ereign STYLE=superscript  li  ,  houses,  through  all  their  branches.  1,  for  one,  therefore,  Sir,  eNamined  all  the  charges  produced  Oefore  them,  and  the  evidence  heard  this  Inquiry  proposed  with  reluctance,  and  saw  it  proceed  in  suoport  of  them,  eio  - STYLE=superscript  n•nlereU  it  as  their  duty  to  state  to  his  1  :...  in  the  form  and  manner  in  w  hich  it  has  proceeded,  with  the  most  Majesty,  that  the  corrupt  practices  alleged  had  e  N  ISWit  ;  b  ut  profound  regret.  CirealllStafirt's,  however,  have  now  chant•d  ;  that  this  II  ouse  has  the  satir.raction  to  state,  that  there  does  not  Ili  the  matter  has  beets  brought  forward,  and  having  been  so  pro-  apie•ar  any  proof  that  his  Royal  I  Ugliness  the  Commander  in  itl,  dneed,  it  now  becomes  a  paramount  (lilt)'  with  the  House,  to  Chief  v;as  g  uilt STYLE=superscript  y  either STYLE=superscript  of  personal  corruption,  or  of  a  direct  s.•  discharge  the  part  which  belong:  to  it.  Under  these STYLE=superscript  impressions,  criminal  connivance.  That  furthermore.,  in  the  execution  of  1:  i  shall  not  deem  it  necessary  to  onalifv  my  sentiments,  :and  i  their  duty,  in  eNaminiug  the  evidence,  tht  House  have  had  the  ii  ,]hall  therefore  proceed  to  g  - STYLE=superscript  tve  any  opinion  on  the  case,  as  it  11  satisfaction  to  discover  the  excelleut  condition  of  the  arary  under  .  L  1  ,  4.,  ..  4  1  '  i,  )  i  l STYLE=superscript  '  . STYLE=superscript  :  /a"
