text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  resources,  and  to  their  virtue  and  talents  we  must  look  up  :for  Cle  preservation  of  our  own  rights,  as  well  as  those  of  our  allleS.  .A  great  responsibility  is  attached  to  them  in  this  monaeutous  crisis  ;  and  we  fondly  hope  that  their  zeal  wilt  be  proportionate  to  the  exigency  of  the  times.  LPfe  ;34:  n;;.;ht  we  received  some  private  ;letters  from  fpain,  which  contain  the  follow  - STYLE=superscript  Mg  interesting  particulars.  We  think  the  authority  is  one  we  can  rely  on  :—Marshal  Sorur,  with  two  divisions,  consisting  of  about  20,000  men,  was  at  Saldanha,  bLttween  Leon  and  Burgos.  From  letter  s  l  ink,:  the  c!lug.e  of  one  of  BONAPARTES'S  Aids-de-Camp,  who  hiid  Inen  killed  by  the  peasants,  it  appears  that  SOULT  was  o:dered  to  attack  Gallicia.  It  is,  therefore,  not  unlikely  he  may  fall  in  with  Generals  MoonE  and  ROMANA  I  the  former  of  wham  was  shaping  his  course  to  Valladolid.  There  have  been,  we  hear,  some  skirmishes  between  ottr  advanced  posts  and  some  parties  of  the  French-100  prisoners  were  taken,  and  were  expected  at  Corinna  the  (by  after  the  Swallow  sailed.  Where  these  skirmishes  took  place,  we  know  not;  but,  we  suppose,  between  Valladolid  and  Salamanca.  The  French  advanced  to  Valladolid,  bui  not  in  great  numbers;  they  plundered  the  Town,  and  com committed  mitted committed  their  usual  cruelties.  Frid:ly  the  Undaunted  frigate,  Captain  MALING,  arrived  at  Porismouth  from  Lisbon;  several  officers  of  the  army  came  home  by  her  ;  .  and  the  accounts  which  they  bring  are  the  mss; STYLE=superscript  sat,sfartory.  Perfect  tranquility  and  the  best  (10i-shutting  lirve  been  restored  in  Portugal.  The  whole  , STYLE=superscript  itir  army  left  in  Portugal  were  on  the  march  to  Spain,  , STYLE=superscript  irreo,..,;lln;e4  1.3'  ,four  Grid  antes  of  Porlugaese  troops,  to  assist  ,ghe  ,%  . STYLE=superscript  General  MOORE'II  army  will,  ti  ,  before  this  time,  exceed  60,000  men.  ..cs  have  been  received  from  Lisbon,  dated  Decem 'Decem.ber'  t  -It  vra.;  there,  on  good  authority,  that  a  Jar  .  -.0.  had  been  again  repulsed  in  an  attack  on  TOSSq.  corps  is  supposed  to  be  that  of  Marshal  111(.9.1ti011ed  in  a  very  strange  manner  in  the  16th  8u1.113  .113  arrived  at  Guatialaxara,  coming  from  Saragossa.  Toe  Supreme  Junta  had  retired  to  Seville,  which  was  colisAe  red  from  the  beginning,by  many  of  the  best  informed  persons,  the  most  eligible  place  to  hold  its  sittings.  The  latest  Letters  direct  from  Sir  JOHN  MOORE  are  dated  from  Salamanca,  on  the  10th  of  December  :  Sir  JOHN  was  at  that  time  informed  of  the  surrender  of  Madrid  :  but  de determined,  termined, determined,  notwithstanding,  to  join  Sir  D  AVID  BAIRD,  Had  to  march  upon  Valladolid.  Sir  Joics  Moon  n  had  still  great  confidence  in  the  spirit  of  the  Spanish  people,  and  was  re resolved  solved resolved  to  give  every  opportunity  and  assistance  to  the  ma manifestation  nifestation manifestation  of  it.  Spanish  Papers  were  received  on  Wednesday,  but  their  contents  lose  of  their  importance,  in  consequence  of  the  intelligence  received  through  the  Paris  Journals.  They  contain,  however,  a  most  animated  Proclamation  of  the  .  Supreme  Junta,  dated  Aranjuez,  22d  November,  for  the  purpose  of  raising  bodies  of  Militia  of  Honour,  in  order  t(  protect  the  cities  in  the  absence  of  the  military,  to  ar arreit,  reit, arreit,  deserters,  and  to  clear  the  country  of  robbers.  There  was  a  report  last  night,  that  we  had  cut  off  a  French  division  of  13,000  men,  coming  from  Medina  de  Rio  Seco  :  we  wish  we  could  confirm  it.  Port  ngnese  Papers  to  the  14th  inst.  have  arrived  ;  they  contain  a  Proclamation  from  Lisbon,  dated  at  the  Palace  of  Governnient,  Dec.  9.  It  calls  on  the  whole  nation  to  rise  in  a  mass,  to  defend  their  country,  and  oppose  an  insur insurmountable  mountable insurmountable  harrier  against  the  French.  -  Tilt!  .I.:sbon  Gazette  of  the  I:ith  of  Deceinb  .  tains  a  i)ecree  issued  by  the  Council  of  \Va:  beecinber  116,  requiring  the  whole  Portuguese,  arm  thems  , STYLE=superscript  !lves  in  every  manner  in  their  power,  daily  with  pikes,  of  six  or  seven  feet  in  length,  tary  Governors  of  the  Provinces  are  requested  to  make  out,  and  transmit  lists  of  such  persons  as,  by  their  activity  and  abilities,  are  proper  to  receive  a  command.  This  ge general  neral general  arming  is  to  include  all  persons  from  the  age  of  fif fifteen  teen fifteen  to  sixty.  The  first  division  of  the  Brigade  of  Guards  from  Chat Chatham,  ham, Chatham,  embarked  on  Thursday,  and  was  to  be  followed  by  the  2d  and  3d  divisions  Thursday  and  Friday.  This  Bri Bri-I.:a  -I.:a Bri-I.:a  le  consists  of  nearly  2,700  men,  and  is  commanded  by  brigadier  General  Campbell.  Besides  these  troops,  in  Ireland  the  first  Royal  Dragoons  and  the  24th  battalion  of  the  83d  infantry,  are  on  their  march  for  Cork  to  be  em embarked  barked embarked  immediately.  Every-exertion  is  making  in  the  c;itrerent  departments  to  equip  and  send  off  the  first  part  of  the  new  expedition  to  Spain.  It  will  consist  of  nearly  11,000  men.  Neither  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley,  nor  any  of  the  other  Ge Ge•neral  •neral Ge•neral  Officers  attached  to  the  British  army  in  Spain,  have,  we  understand,  yet  received  orders  to  hold  themselves  in  readiness  to  return  to  the  Continent.  The  report,  there therefore,  fore, therefore,  of  Sir  Arthur's  preparations  for  immediate  em embarkation  barkation embarkation  at  Cork,  seems  to  have  been  premature.  Suchan  event,  indeed,  would  nee.atively  decide  the  question,  whe  ther  or  not  a  Court  lai-11.111  is  to  be  instituted.  In  this  case  his  presence  could  not  be  dispensed  with.  It  appears  that  the  late  French  Bulletins  were  brought  to  within  a  certain  distance  of  the  English  coast,  and  put  into  an  boat,  which  was  suffered  to  drift  on  shore,  It  accordingly  reached  the  coast,  between  Dyinchurch  and  Ilythe,  and  a  canvass  bag,  in  which  the  papers  were  enclosed,  was  taken  from  it  and  conveyed  to  Lon London.—The  don.—The London.—The  singularity  of  this  mode  of  communication  is  perhaps  not  so  extraordi  , STYLE=superscript  nry  as  it  appears  at  first  sight;  and  a  circumstance  which  has  lately  transpired,  seems  suf sufficiently  ficiently sufficiently  to  account  why  the  French  boatmen  did  not  trust  themselves  near  to  our  cruizers.—A  boat's  crew  of  an  Eng English  lish English  g  un  -  brig  ,  consisting  of  fourteen  men,  including  a  war warrantofficer,lately  rantofficer,lately warrantofficer,lately  landed  on  the  French  coast  for  the  pur purpose  pose purpose  of  distributing  papers,  &amp;c.  and  having  drawn  their  boat  up  on  the  beach,  proceeded  a  short  distance  into  the  country,  where  at  a  public  house  they  imprudently  got  in intoxicated.  toxicated. intoxicated.  In  the  interim,  a  party  of  horse,  patroling  the  coast,  perceived  the  boat,  and  traced  the  sailors  to  the  above  house,  where  they  were  all  taken,  and  have  since  been  executed  as  spies,  and  their  bodies  exposed  on  gib gibbets,  bets, gibbets,  at  intervals  of  a  mile  apart,  along  the  Freneh  coast,  from  Cape  Grisnez  to  Boulogne.  We  have  lately  seen  several  letters  from  Spain,  from  Officers  both  in  Sir  David  Baird's  and  Sir  John  Moore's  armies—they  all  concur  in  praise  of  their  leaders,  notwith notwithstanding  standing notwithstanding  the  privations  which  they  oblige  all  to  submit  to.  These  are  very  great,  particularly  in  Sir  J.  Moore's  army.  Officers  carry  about  their  personal  baggage  themselves— themselvesall  all themselvesall  public  servants  whether  as  battmen,  servants,  &amp;c.  have  been  taken  away,  Gen.  Moore  being  determined  to  have  as  many  muskets  as  possible—at  first  the  Staff  grumbled  ,but  lat latterly  terly latterly  all  saw  the  necessity  of  the  measure;  instead  of  every  Captain  and  every  two  Subalterns  having  each  a  tent,  seven  Officers  sleep  in  one  tent,  and  Field  Officers,  Staff  Officers,  and  others,  entitled  to  have  horses,  are  obliged  to  rub  down  and  clean  them  themselves.  The  large  ratio  of  meat  has  been  diminished  in  both  armies,  and  without  any  incon inconvenience  venience inconvenience  having  been  felt.  Never  were  any  armies  in  greater  health.  Several  corps,  particularly  the  79th  and  92d,  had  not  a  sick  man,  after  marches  of  some  hundred  miles.  The  publisher  of  the  Microcosm  of  London  has  announced  a  new  Monthly  Magazine.  called  The  Repository  of  Arts,  &amp;e.  for  the  2d  of  January  next.  We  are  well  washers  to  the  first  work,  and  as  such  recommend  Mr.  Ackermann  to  pursue  the  same  liberal  conduct  in  the  present  work,  hich  distinguishes  the  former.  If  we  were  acquainted  with  the  P'  Trietor  might  .baps  recommend  him  P10_TB00008 inber  also  con-  with  the  Proprietor,  we  might  perhaps  recommend  him  iv  ',  'and  dated  to  enlarge  some  of  the  articles,  and  compress  others,  as  ;nese.  people  to  they  appear  in  the  Prospectus.  After  seeing  the  first  num-  iwer,  and  espe-  h  e  r  we  shall  perhaps  say  something  either  in  praise  or  ;th.  The  Mili-  dispraise  of  its  execution.  •  .  .  :.-,  .'  ;  ...  .;  ;i:  .E.  a,  ::  i  .%:  i  !..  .."
