text
"THE  - STYLE=superscript  .  NA  T  1  °NAV  Q  1  TER.  AIMUL  t  5:  Lein'  RV  PO  litT.•  '  '  COURT  OF  cnicsituy,  APRIL  1,.  aroaltis,  w  - STYLE=superscript  t*  v.  COLMAN.  This  was  rid  application  to  remove  Vr,Coltnan  from  t  he  ma mahagetnent  hagetnent mahagetnent  of  the  LlaymackerTheatre,  to;  whicb,  it.  was  alleged,  he  was  incenspetent,  as  being.  confined  for-debt-within  the  rules  of  the  King's  Bench.,  ,There  teas  a  variety.  of  other  allegations  of  mismanageMent  ;  ,but  it  wvas  stated  in  the_  defence,  that  by  agiWiTreiriliet  wreathe  parties,  'ail  such  matters  shouid  - STYLE=superscript  have  been  sobipit4efl  to  arbitration.  It  was  .  also  asserted,  that  the  pro propertty*as  pertty*as propertty*as  so  far  from  being  deteriorated  that  eight  shares,  which  in  ISM  were  sold  at  2,300  1 STYLE=superscript  .  each,.  in.  IAO7  weie..estitaated  at  each.--3  Udginent  deferred.  •  •  •  •  •  COURT  OF  commoN  p.Lr....ks,  APRIL  26:  •  •  •  MADAME  CA.TAL  AN  I.  MOND  V.  V  PARREQUE.  This  was-am/teflon  - STYLE=superscript  to  - STYLE=superscript  recover  129!.  for  goods  sold'and  de delivered.  livered. delivered.  •  Serjeant  Shepherd  opened  the  case,  and  stated  that  the  plain plainsitr  sitr plainsitr  etas  the  husband  Of  MadaMe  Jayinond  fattcy  dreg-'Maker  In  this  city..  The  defendant  Was  .a•-man  of  great  celebrity,  not  on  his  otYri  merits.  but  on  those  of  his  wife,  who  as  'Madame  Va Valabrentie,  labrentie, Valabrentie,  .WOuld  never  he  known  ;  but  as  the  .  fascinating  and  charming  men,'  Maidam  Catalan'.  was  lowien  to  every  person.  The  articles  furnished  by  the  plaintiff  were  dresses  for  this  famousaVid  favourite:sin:ter,  to  perform  in  it  the  Opera  House.  Ilehoped  not  hear  from  his  !warned  Brother,  thltt  the  defemlantsdid.  not  countenance  her  obtainingand  wearing  those  dresses.;  for,  •if  he  did  he  would  Prove  to  the  contrary  :  the  defendant  reeeiVedfind  paitOok  of  flie•  S  . STYLE=superscript  .0001.  a  that  those  dresses  assisTencer  to.  .Madpme  Catalani,  although  a  singer  of  the  greatest  taleatf,  yet  she  required  to  he  dressed  tip  appear  before  a  Britisbaudiente  ;  she  was  also  an  excellent  actress  and,  what  Was  mote  Pleasing  to  Gentlemen,  her  person  was  very  handsome,  and  .nn  person  could  object  that  an  Italian  singer  shoind  be  dressed  as  well  on  the  stage  as  an  English  lady.  The  defendant  attended  the  Making  of  thedresses,  and  particularly  to  a  figure  ju  wax,  which  was  made  to  repreSeni  Catalani  in  the  character  - STYLE=superscript  of  Semi  ran;i4le,.  in  :  the  serious  apera.of  that  name.  He  gave  direetious,  and  attended  the  dressing  of  it,  The  second  dress  was  for  the  cootie  Opera  of  •Paschlann.  [Here  the  Learn Learned  ed Learned  Serjeant  was  interrupted,  and  informed  by  Serjeant  Best.  that  the.  articles  furnished  were  not  dispuied.]  He  continued  by  saying,  the  plaintiff  paid  her  the  most  uereinitting  at  teatiott,.ttsed  to  attend  her  at..the:  Opera  House  to•dress  her,  and  for,both  when  he  :tsked  for  her  money,  the  defendant  told  her  she  must  apply  to  the  Trustees  of  the  Opera  House.;  she  did  . STYLE=superscript  fipPly,  and  what  answer  did  she  receive/  that  the  Opera  House  had  their  awn  dre,s-teakers..  )le  did'  think  Madame  ratatani  acted  right  in  not  eniPlitying  them  ;•  they  might  answer  a  fist:senate  at  2/.  a  month,  -hut  - STYLE=superscript  wank!  not  become  a  foreigner  receiving  NOM  a-year  from  a  generous  public.  It  [was  not  his  **labia  depreciate  her  merits,  for  there  was  no  man  admired  them  more;  in  fact,  he  admired  both  the  taste  of  the  husband  awl  the  wife,  but  he  confessed  he.  considered  that  of  Madame  Catalani  -the  most  re re'fined  'fined re'fined  when  .she  warbled  her  sweet  notes.  (At  this  moment,  a  waxen  doll,  abottt  - STYLE=superscript  three  feet  in  height,  dressed  in  character  of  Semiraadde,  was  passed  over  . STYLE=superscript  the  heads  of  the  spectators,  and  placed  en  table,  to  the  00  small  diversionaf  the  Court.  The  figure  and  features  were  net  -unlike  Madame  Catalani).  The  .I.e9rued  Serjeant  then  proceeded.  lids  is  a  specimen  of  the  dresses  in  Miniature.  Inking  hold  of  the  train  of-crimson  velvet,  trimmed  with  gold  lace.  He  desired  the  .Tury  to  look  at  the  diadem  and  veil  tin  the  ke:id.  and  ask  themselves  if  any  Opera  House  or  Theatre  could  facnish  them.  He  then  told  them,  if  they  were  unacquainted  .with  the  manner  they  commonly  made  up  dresses,  he  would  inform  them,  in::trad  of  silk,  they  would  have  glazed  stuff.  He  concluded,  ,hy  sayia  - STYLE=superscript  :,  he  would  leave  the  case  to  the  Jury,  and  he  bad  not  a  doubt  but,  they  would  give  a  Vprdiet  for  the  plaintiff.  He  then  proceeded  to  call  his  witnesses.  Serjeant  .Best  then  addressed  the  jury,  and  said  that  notwith notwithstanding  standing notwithstanding  they  had  been  told  the  defendant  had  received  eight  those-and  pounds  a  year  by  the  abilities  of  his  wife;  he  did  not  think  it  becoming  of  a  French  miltinerto  instruct  - STYLE=superscript  her  counsel  to  talk  of  thei  large  profits  of  any  othearfareigner  ;  and  when  Malian  singers  were  ordered  out  of.  the  country,  be  'trusted  French  milliners  would  not  be  left  behind.  .  lie  was  coovi4ed,  if  their  yerdict  was  in  favour  ortha  elaiatiff,  it  mast-be  becauge  ,••  ...  Alit  i  ~4  /  ••••111.11911.11p  i  Vi•  •  •••41.•  •  •  4111146...  •  ••••••  •.a+  •  •  •  ~~~,  he  (Serieant  liesi)  did  not  de  his  ditty:  tie  would  prove,  that  t  hough  Maclaine  Catalan',  bY  'fief  agreemiatt,  was  paid  sti  lat,t6  a  sum,  yet  it  was  specified  that  she  was  to  be  furnished  by  thd  opera-house  with  her  dresses.-;--There  is  nothing  in  law  or  morals  that  said,  if  you  entrust  one  person,  and'  he  is  not  able  to  pay;  that  another  should  be  Made  to  pay  it.  Ile  said  Nladame  lani  had  had  private  dealings  with  the  plaintiff,  and  had  paid  her  a  bill  amounting  to  45?.  and  got  a  receipt  without  ever  Hi  having  been  intimated  to  her  that  there  was  any  other  demand  against  her.  lie  would  further  prove  that  she  cautioned  the  plaintiff  to  he  on  her  guard  as  to  her  payment,  for  she  did  not  consider  herself  answerable.  He  Concluded  by  stating,  that  hti  was  Confident  the  Jury  could  not  hesitate  far  a  moment  in  givitig  a  verdict  for  the  defendant  ;  he  was  cettain  w  hen  ire  proved  - STYLE=superscript  these  points,  his  Lordship  would  not  allow  it  to  go  to  them.  Mr.  Intville  proved  the  articles  of  agTeement,  which  Fpeci-  Ified,  that  Itiadarae  Catalan'  was  to  be  furnished  with  these'  ;by  the  operaof  her  own.thoosing.  Lord  Chief  'Notice  Mansfield  observed,  it  must  haVe  Hiropossible  for  the.plaintiir  not  to  have  known  she  was  Working  for  the  oPera-htiase,  yet  it  was  a  sery  hard  ease  ;  and  he  emild  !tint  avoid  saying;  that  it  was  scandalous  and  infamous  treatment  . STYLE=superscript  hetweeh  the  trustees  of  the  opera-house  and  Madame  Catalani  awl  if  she  was  to  ask  his  Opinion,  he  would  tell  her  to  pay  OW  ;plaintiff  if  the  opera-house  did  hot;  but  as  ttte  ciremustancel  ware,  *  he  most  order  a  nonsuit.  The  ttas  accordingly  iionsui  tett  That  extrettiely  curious  little  Tract,  entitled  The..  Spirit  i  t  ,  Ffiglish  Wit,is  an  eutertaining  budget  of  lauzhable  anecdotes;  smart  repartees,.  prize,bulls,  pointed  epigrams,  humorous  epi:t  taphs,  droll  dtscriptions,  sprightly  itticisms,  singular  cliarae;-  ters,  bursts  of  merriment,  curious  advertisement~,  tlight  of  ittlg  gination,  effusions  of  fancy,  lite.  including  . STYLE=superscript  several  Jett  d'Espritz..  TO  be  had  of  Thomas  Tegg,  No.  l  l  1,  Cheapside  s  arid  of  nit  booksellers,.  BIRTH.  GlOureAershire,  the  wife  of  a  pan.  Mao,  nutted  Kilby,  of  four  children,  three  of  whom  are  liv  ing.  MARRIED.  On  Sunday,  the  9th  instant,  at  Smith  Da:ton,  Mr.  Thnulls  Fisher,  aged  69,  to  Miss  Granger,  his  hooseio-eiwr,  aged  after  a  short  courtship.  The  banns  of  marriage  bet,.‘,'  ea  the  bride  and  a  roan  man,  her  fellow  servant,  %i  ere  to  11.1  %  e  heed  published  on  that  day:  At.4lphingtou,  Mr.  Richard  Hellings,  aged  90,  to  Flurford,  aged  19.  IMED.  •  On  Thursday  morning,  Earl  Harcourt.  in  Merrionzsquare,  Dublin,  the  Coni,te34  Dowager  of  Mayo  likewise.the  Dowager  Lady  Sirele.  LLOYD'S  LISPS.  •  TiJCStiay.  p  The  A  metli3st  frigate,  of  *guns,  arrived  at  Plymouth  ou  Thu  rsiftY:  On  04  Gth  iust.  Abe  captured  the  Niemen  French  friate.  of  4tv  guts  (unite  new)  and  30  teen,  hotitti  from  Bordeaux  to  the  Isles  of  France,  afit.r  4  . STYLE=superscript  4  action  of  hour,:  and  forty  minuto.  The  Amethyst  bad  S  men  killed  .t  7  wounded,  and  lust  her  main  ai4  iniztr.t  , STYLE=superscript  rna4t.  -  The  Nitanen  bad  47  min  killed  and  7:4  wow:  :.N1  and  was  totally.dismasted.  .She  was  left  in  charge  of  the  Arothuoa  frizate,  Which  came  up  at  .the  close  of  the  action.  -  _  The  firit!sli  brig  lilizsibeth  and  Emma,  reported  tr,  belott  at  La  tiuira;  vtar  there  well  ilst  January.  The  Ilerw.ick,  Griffiths,  from  London  to  Barbadoest,  statetto  captured  anti  carried  into  Gnadaloupe,  arrived  at  Jamaica  l&amp;th  14  1 STYLE=superscript  .hrpoary.  .  The.  American  brig  Bata%  ian,  Bradie:•  ,  from  Jacm  el  to  London,  wag  &amp;talc  . STYLE=superscript  Ni  l STYLE=superscript  15th  Feb:  by  the  Avon  sloop  oi  war,  and  seat  into  .1J  maica.  The  Volunteer,  Martin,  from  atina  to  rhiLl  w  bleb  ptit  iuto  Si  .  to  distress,  is  condemned.'  Cargo  sold.  t. STYLE=superscript  ree  V  4  illtain,  of  Loudon;  bf  . STYLE=superscript  4.ltintit  300  ladelt  with  11isthoganl;  is  take:a  lit  a  French  petvateer,und  carried  into  Mortaix.  •  The  tieptnne,  Purdy,  is  taken  and  carried  into  2  a  nte.  The.  Item),  Carnachan,fro.n  Deme  rara  to  Groeui  ,ck,  is  put  into  Gren.ida  leakj  and  noloading.  The  Active.  Wall,  from  TeneritTe  to  London,  ill  taken  and  cArri,..tl  into  Francei:'  The  brig  . STYLE=superscript  Dispatch,  lvliflrun,  from  wAs  tai  en  the  .Stli  Merat,  ht  lat.  411,  51,  . STYLE=superscript  .  6.  7.  by  the  Itevanche  French  pri%*ateer.  The  (.'vrns  from  Jamaica  to  Halifax,  on  Cape  Corierteg,  The  Margery  and  Mary,•  Will:union,  from  IA  idon  to  'New  Pros  ideace,  wait  captured  i9tiiJan..by  the  Papiiios  French  Brij  cl  war,  and  burnt  Tie  IWo  Sister!,  Ilau•phy,  from  Liihon  to  4  uglai.id,  is  lost  on  the  Tagus  crew  saved.  r„  ....  1~  I  I  I~  P15_TB00021 i.  diadem  and  veil  tin  the  ketid;  nod  ask.  themselves  if  any  Opera  Thornav,'.:  la  distre.=,s,  is  condemned.  cargo  ;viii.  ,  Tl,e  Vt  113  am,  of  Loudon;  of  about  ..:00  t  9  ii,  lade.  t  with  Mahogany;  is  taken  iii  .  House  or  Theatre  could  furnish  them.  lie  then  told  them,  if  a  Frenc  h  Ingvateer,•and  carried  into  Moriatx.  •  they  were  unacquainted  .wi-th  the  manner  they  commonly  Made  •  The  tieptnne,  Pitrdr,  is  taken  and  carried  into  2  lute.  .  •.  •  •  ttp  dreises,  he  would  inform  them,  intend  of  silk,  they  would  The  Hero,  Caraachau,  fro.n  Demerara  to  tiree,A  ,cir,  ii  put  into  Caen  lila  leakj  ~  ,  ,  s  ,  ,  •  have  glazed  stuff.  He  concluded,  ,by  savin  . STYLE=superscript  :,  he  would  li•ave  and  tutload  .  ing.  _  the  case  to  the.  Jury,  and  he  had  not  a  doubt  but,  they  would  .  give  a  Yfrdiet.  for  the  plaintiff.  lie  Omit  proceeded  to  call  his  1  1:h  i,e  e  Artist..  IN  all,from  TeneritiZ  tLc  neon  )  I  ken  and  e  rri  d  int  F  .  0  1  ,  ,**  a  •  4  ...  .  0  r.  ..,_  brig.  Dispatch,  MiritNn,  loon  —,  w,et  tai  en  the  t  'Ali  Merat,  in.  lat.  4.ii  i  51.  6.  7.  Iri  the  Revanche  Freud*  pri%*ateer.  '  4  '  i  witnesses.  .  The  Cvrns  LOOM  - STYLE=superscript  from  Jamaica  to  Halifax,  iiio4t  on  Cape  Coriertea,  •  -  The  Niart...,..e  .  ry  and  Mary,-  W  .  i  .  llamion,  from  .  to  , STYLE=superscript  t  tdon  to  New  Pros  ideAce,  th  at  Serjeant  Best  then  addressed  the  jury,  and  said  that  notwith-  .  i  captured  49  t  h  Jan.  the  Papnios  French  bris  ci  war,  sad  burnt  Maud  i  rt.o.  they  had  been  told  the  defendant  had  received  eight  Tie  Two  Sisters,  'Murphy,  from  Liihon  to  4  uglaud,  is  loit  on  the  Tarns  -  .  !1  , STYLE=superscript  thon-  , STYLE=superscript  and  pounds  a  year  by  the  abilities  of  his  wife;  he  did  not  crew  saved.  ,1  thin  ernm  a  re  k  it  hing  of  French  milline  FRIDAY.  .  rto  instruct  - STYLE=superscript  her  counsel  :  .  -  4:  to  talk  of  llif  , STYLE=superscript  lttrge  pro  fi  ts  of  any  othearfareituer  ;  and  when  Th  e  F  ann  y  an  d  A  lmira  w  Hick;„  waz.  t•thenbv  it  Dattiskpri  career  in  Nov.  last`  ,:  ...  'ltalian  sin,..;ers  were  ordered  out  of  the  country,  be  'trusted  retaken  hy  hi.;  Majeit.'s  ship;  Hound,  - STYLE=superscript  irtinint.,  awl,.  Chart  , STYLE=superscript  ,:lr,  ant  .e:.t  into'  French  milliners  would  not  be  kft  behind.  .}le  was  coovit4ed,  •  •-  •  ,  1  Ltpieroo2l7there  5...  e  r'ertaine4-24th  nit.  Tito:Dankh  Over;  arrival  at  Leith  17th  ,  priacti  to  his  7#,FikiestA-  7  hip-iViii..?,.  4  ;I  if  their  verdict  was  in  favour  ortha  plaintiff;  it  mast  be  becauge  ;,  and  Loe:  .  •  .  :f•  -  •  !  ' STYLE=superscript  .q  !  .i  •  .  pk.....  Ali/  .  1 STYLE=superscript  .  .  1 STYLE=superscript  ~.  ••  ..  ..1  ;  •  .  .  •  '.  i  .  ,  ..  .  .  -  't"
