text
"108  foundation  of  the  Spanish  ►nonarchy,  your  religion  your  Sovereign  andyour  laws.  By  your  valour  you  have  asserted  44  your  independence,  crossed  the  sea•,  conquered  the  coast  ••  of  Africa,  vanquished  the  nations  of  the  East,  and  form 'form'  ed  a  vast  Empire  in  the  finest  part  of  the  new  World.  ••  We,  we  alone  have  performed  such  prodigies  of  valour.  hDo  we  not  still  possess  the  same  religion  ?  De  we  not  j  • STYLE=superscript  still  breath  the  same  air?  Are  svc  not  the  same  Portu Portu-44.  -44. Portu-44.  guese  ?  A  valorous  nation  is  not  made  to  be  the  slaves  of  s•  a  These  papers  also  contain  some  particulars  from  Spaiw.  An  article  from  liadajoz  states  that  the  Duke  of  INpAN INpANdrauo  drauo INpANdrauo  is  posted  at  Cuenca  with  his  army,  which  already  exceeds  40,000  men  ;  that  of  Arrogan  is  estimated  in  the  same  article  at  30,000,  and  that  of  Estremadura,  at  20,000.  Those  of  Andalusia  wid  Catalonia  are  said  to  have  en encreased;  creased; encreased;  but  their  number  is  not  ascertained.  An  account,  dated  Saragossa  sOth  Dec.  mentions  some  amccess  obtained  over  the  blockading  army  by  a  part  of  the  garrison,  consisting  of  4000  men,  who  were  s  nt  to  make  a  reconnoitering  party.  The  object  of  the  opera operation  tion operation  was  to  ascertain  the  position  of  the  enemy,  and  the  nature  of  the  works  which  had  been  erected  on  the  banks  of  the  Ebro.  It  was  attended  with  the  most  complete  suc success  cess success  ;  and  the  French  were  dislodged  with  coasiderabie  loss.  Though  no  direct  accounts  have  been  received  for  Rome  'time  from  Spain,  the  intelligence  we  receive  by  the  way  of  Portugal,  confirms  the  private  and  public  accounts  we  have  previously  communicated  of  the  patriotic  exertions,  which  the  Southern  and  Eastern  Provinces  of  the  Peninsula  continue  to  make  in  support  of  their  independence.  The  Supreme  Junta  are  indefatigable  in  their  efforts  ;  and  their  actions  and  their  words  evince  a  strong  determination  to  employ,  to  the  utmost  extent  of  their  powers,  the  resources  which  the  country  possesses.  It  is  a  mortifying-  reflection  for  self-love,  that  experience  is  to  be  acquired  by  most  men  only  from  misfortunes  and  reverses  ;  had  it  been  instinctive,  the  principal  efforts  of  the  Spanish  and  British  Governmetts  had  bees  directed  in  the  commencement  of  the  contest,  to  or organise  ganise organise  in  the  Southern  Provinces  those  great  means  of  resist resistance,  ance, resistance,  which  the  nature  of  the  country,  and  the  enthusiasm  of  the  natives  so  amply  offered.  No  contest  ever  began  under  such  favourable  auspices,  and  never  were  hopes  so  cruelly  slisappointed.  A  dreadful  responsibility  attaches  some somewhere.  where. somewhere.  We  acquit  the  majority  of  the  two  countries,  without  any  hesitation,  of  having  frustrated,  by  their  stpathy,  the  noblest  prospect  of  safety  to  Europe,  and  freedom  to  mankind,  that  has  presented  itself  for  a  series  a  years.  But  the  vast  advantages  of  the  auspicious  mo mowent  went mowent  were  mrred  by  '(dial  ignorance  and  presumption.  Thig  is  the  fatal  secret  of  the  reverses  of  Europe.  There  is  no  master-hand  to  direct  the  concerns  of  any  of  its  states  ;  end  whilst  an  active  and  intelligent  ruffian  is  conspiring  daily,  with  greater  success,  against  the  happiness  and  in independance  dependance independance  of  all,  the  individuals  who  arc  entrusted  with  the  arduous  task  of  providing  aga  . STYLE=superscript  nit  the  accumulating  danger,  betray  more  ahrin'ng  sip-.s  of  incapacity  and  want  of  foresight.  What  a  dreadful  presentiment  forces  itself  on  our  minds,  at  the  contemplation  of  these  glaring  tenths.  Distant  danger  may  render  us  inirros  Went,  and  The  Parliamentary  business  of  this  week  was  almost  ex exclusively  clusively exclusively  confined  to  the  investigation  of  witnesses  on  Mr.  WA  ttni.F.'s  motion.  We  intend  deferring  our  comments  on  this  extraordinary  business  until  it  be  finally  terminated.  We  feel  however,  au  uncommon  satisfactigu  that  the  sub-  P12_TB00006 ing  frustrated,  by  their  ,  and  Denmark.  The  hatred  which  the  Swedes  entertain  r  f  safety  to  Europe,  and  for  the  Russians,  is  inveterate;  and  their  animosity  against  givp  'ciente('  itself  for  a  series  11  the  Danes  is  equally  rooted,  but  with  this  distinguishing  es  of  the  auspicious  nio.  :  character,  that  it  is  blended  with  the  most  supreme  con-  loratice  and  presumption.  I  tempt.  The  people,  who  are,  comparatively  speaking,  mses  of  Europe.  ► STYLE=superscript  There  is  I  the  poorest  in  Europe,  may,  perhaps,  express  some  discon-  -,...  cerlis  of  any  of  its  states  ;  I  tent  in  consequence  of  the  burtheas  occasioned  by  the  pre-  •  .  ,  gent  ruffian  is  conspiring  i  sent  war  ;  but  their  national  antipathies  will  render  them  ~  !Ist  the  happiness  and  in-  !  insensible  to  its  pressure,  and  they  will  contribute  with  Is  who  arc  entrusted  with  alacrity  to  any  measure  which  favours  this  passion.  figa  . STYLE=superscript  nit  the  accumulating  —ow—  :.•  The  Parliamentary  business  of  this  week  was  almost  ex-  ,L  ;rs  of  incapacity  and  want  :  1  elusively  con  fi  ned  to  the  investigation  of  witnesses  on  Mr.  presentiment  forces  itself  1  w  Annut  :  s  motion.  We  intend  deferring  our  comments  on  [dation  of  these  glaring  this  extraordinary  business  until  it  be  finally  terminated.  dcr  us  'will  ruN  Went,  and  1  We  feel  howcycr  ,  au  uncommon  satisfactigu  that  the  sub-  •  .  .  .  ~.  IMIMIIIMMIMMMMNMMIIIMIIMMIIIMIIIIIIIIMIIIMIIIIIIIWISIIII"
