text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  1,  I STYLE=superscript  2  0  .  s  rans-atlautic  possessions.  This  extensive  and  deeply  projected  plan  of  commercial  and  political  interdiction  was  only  the  fore-runner  of  still  more  alarming  menaces  s  and  the  dock-yards  of  Europe  and  America  were  to  be  employed  in  constructing  fleets  to  transport  immense  armies  for  the  invasion  of  our  islands.  This  was  no  idle  threat  used  to  terrify  us  into  a  renunciation  of  our  maritime  preponderance;  it  was  the  favorite  and  maturely  weighed  object  of  an  individual,  whose  means  and  perseverance  arc  as  treat,  as  his  ambition  is  insatiable  ;  and  who,  in  addition  to  the  resentment  he  bears  us,  had  a  new  incite incitement  ment incitement  to  carry  it  into  execution,  from  the  conviction  he  felt,  that  as  long  as  this  country  retained  its  independence,  his  vast  projects  could  never  be  realised,  and  his  authority  was  precarious.  A  man,  animated  with  such  views,  and  acting  on  such  principles,  whose  moral  and  physical  resources  are  so  ex extensive,  tensive, extensive,  is  capable  of  pertimning  things,  which  to  the  generality  of  men  appear  incredible.  Ordinary  resistance,  at  least,  could  oppose  no  hindrance  to  his  profound  schemes;  nothing  but  the  most  strenuous  exertions  and  watchful  vigilance,  on  the  part  of  the  community,  were  sufficient  to  frustrate  them.  A  single  oversight,  or  relax relaxation  ation relaxation  on  our  part,  might  give  him  advantages,  which  all  the  combinations  of  genius,  and  the  efforts  of  patriotism  might  not  enable  us  to  wrest  from  him  ;  and  disasters  ensue  which  we  feel  a  horror  to  reflect  on.  Such  was  the  situation  we  stood  in  at  the  commence commencement  ment commencement  of  last  year.  We  have  given  a  faithful  description  of  the  dangers  we  were  exposed  to,  and  the  difficulties  we  had  to  surmount.  After  having  stated  them  candidly,  we  now  investigate  if  the  precautionary  measures  on  our  side  were  proportionate  to  their  alarming  extent.  It  is  by  frequent  and  impartial  examination  of  the  question  that  we  shall  be  able  to  meet  with  fortitude  any  occurrences  that  may  await  us,  and  prepare  the  means  of  rendering  them  harmless.  An  affected  delicacy  and  mysterions  silence  on  such  subjects  is  highly  reprehensible,  and  frequently  attended  by  the  most  dangerous  consequences  ;  for  what  interests  all  must  be  subject  to  public  and  unrestrained  investigation.  The  principal  object  that  engaged,  and  ought  to  engage,  the  attention  of  Government  at  that  time,  was  the  orga organization  nization organization  of  an  adequate  military  force.  This  was  the  subject  of  long  parliamentary  discussion  ;  and  the  public  coincided  in  the  necessity  of  increasing  our  army,  so  as  to  meet  the  exigency  of  the  moment.  However,  in  this  aug augmentation,  mentation, augmentation,  we  were  more  attentive  to  defensive  than  offen offensive  sive offensive  warfare;  and  were  not  sensible  of  the  insufficiency  of  such  a  measure,  until  the  unexpected  occurrences  in  Spain  convinced  us  of  the  error  we  had  committed.  In  politics,  nothing  is  more  dangerous  than  half  mea measures  sures measures  ;  and,  when  a  plan  is  adopted,  it  should  be  executed  to  the  fullest  extent  the  resources  of  a  country  admit  of.  The  very  moment  BONAPARTE  denounced  ruin  to  this  country,  had  we  immediately  embraced  the  resolution  of  retorting  on  France  the  vengeance  she  threatened  to  inflict  on  us,  instead  of  a  local  militia,  or  our  volunteer  system,  we  would  have  converted  the  whole  armed  force  of  the  fe-  le  regular  army,  ready  for  offensive  opportunity,  similar  to  that  which  offered  itself  to  display  the  vast  mistake  we  bad  been  guilty  of.—  JAN.  1.  Another,  far  more  fatal  in  its  tendency  and  consequences,  though  rejected  in  theory,  had  .been  invariably  adhered  to  in  practice,  since  the  beginning  of  the  revolutionary  war.  This  cousieed  in  the  pusiilauimous  policy  of  dis disclaiming  claiming disclaiming  the  practability  of  combating  the  enemy,  with  any  prospect  of  success,  on  his  own  territory.  The  mo moment  ment moment  this  idea  became  prevalent,  ras  long  as  it  continued  to  regulate  our  conduct,  we  gave  up  every  pretension  to  equality  ;  and  progressive  improvement,  or  political  ag aggrandizement,  grandizement, aggrandizement,  was  voluntarily  renounced.  It  is  a  truism,  in  political  science,  that  nothing  is  stationary;  and  the  community  which  cherishes  .the  idea,  that  it  has  arrived  at  the  zenith  of  its  power,  and  displayed  the  full  extent  of  its  resources,  inevitably  begins  to  decline,  and  will  do  so  sensibly,  till  it  has  discarded  this  dangerous  opinion.  The  energies  of  a  country  possessed  of  our  opulence,  popu population,  lation, population,  and  institutions  are  incalculable  ;  and,  the  states statesman  man statesman  who  does  not  think  so,  and  does  not  act  in  conformity  to  that  idea,  is  perfectly  incompetent  to  the  management  of  its  affairs.  What  has  been  observed  of  extraordinary  men,  is  perfectly  applicable  to  a  state  like  ours  :  that  nothing  is  impossible  to  them,  as  soon  as  they  form  the  determination  of  performing  it.  We  are  so  thoroughly  convinced  of  the  truth  of  this  observation,  that  we  feel  not  the  slightest  reluctance  in  ascribing  the  insufficient  part  we  acted,  for  the  last  fourteen  years,  solely  to  the  weakness  of  the  several  administrations.  We  recal  with  pleasure,  in  confirmation  of  what  we  have  asserted,  the  expression  of  a  much-lamented  Statesman  The  . STYLE=superscript  time  will  speedily  come,  or  I  am  mistaken  in  the  character  of  my  countrymen,  when,  instead  of  confining.  our  exertions  to  the  defence  of  our  own  shores,  we  shall  fling  a  consider considerable  able considerable  part  of  our  population  on  the  enemy's  coast,  and  retaliate  on  them  some  of  the  injuries  they  so  wantonly  inflicted  on  others  But  fortunately  for  us  (and,  Heaven  knows,  FORTUNE  has  been  particularly  propitious  to  this  country  !  though  we  cannot  boast  of  having  made  the  best  use  of  her  favours,)  the  error  is  not  irretrievable;  and  an  opportunity  has  lately  offered  itself,  favourable  beyond  the  wishes  of  the  most  ardent  friend  to  his  country,  of  recovering  that  pre preponderance  ponderance preponderance  we  had  so  unwarrantably  resigned.  It  is  superfluous  to  mention  what  we  are  adverting  to  ;  and,  if  Ministers  possess  only  a  particle  of  genius;  with  sufficient  knowledge  of  the  British  character,  an  army  of  150,000  Englishmen  will  exhibit,  before  the  month  of  April  next,  what  Great  Britain  is  capable  of  performing.  Reader,  before  you  hazard  an  objection,  we  insist  on  your  con considering,  sidering, considering,  first,  the  glorious  result  of  such  an  undertaking  !  With  British  feelings,  your  heart  must  throb  with  extatic  anticipation  of  the  immortal  honour  the  exploits  of  these  heroes  will  confer  on  this  country.  With  what  enthusiastic  rapture  shall  we  celebrate  their  victories!  With  inexpressible  pleasure  we  will  congra congratulate  tulate congratulate  one  another  on  this  commencement  of  a  brighter  era!  Surely  none  of  us  is  so  faiLt-hearted  as  to  foresee  dan danger,  ger, danger,  or  uncertainty  of  success,  were  they  at  this  moment  at  the  foot  of  the  Pyrcnnees.  After  having  shut  for  ever  the  asses  of  these  mountains,  an  inveterate,  an  abomi abominable'  nable' abominable'  enemy  would  be  placed  in  the  same  situation  to  which  our  immortal  ABERCROMBY  had  reduced  them  in  Egypt  1  Is  any  of  us  so  lust,  so  callous,  as  to  be  indiffe-  I  rent  to  such  au  event.  Had  we  an  eternity  of  existence  P2_TB00015 country  into  a  formidable  operations,  at  soon  as  an  c  •Stielfin  Spain,  •  .fr,O•oe  ;  ;Am,  ople,  h•ps.-•  •  ,  •  17,-  .  Okfluly  •  .  .  P2_TB00016 1  , STYLE=superscript"
