text
"tREACII  OP  PRIVILEGE.  Sir  Charles  Hamilton,  previous  to  moving  the  arde'r  of  the  Day,  that  Daniel  Butler  be  called  to  the  Bar,  proceeded  to  state'  the  circumstances  which  induced  him  to  trouble  the  House  with  a  complaint  agniust  that  ingividual.  Had  any  apology  been  made,  he  should  have  suffered  the  matter  to  drop  ;  but  not  the  slightest  apology  had  been  offered.  About  three  o'clock  lii  the  afternoon  of  Wednesday  last,  a  servant  in  livery  brought  a  let letter  ter letter  to  his  house;  addressed  to  Sit  J.  C.  Hamilton,  Bart.  lit  opened  it  inadvertently  without  looking  at  the  direction,  and  found  the  purport  of  it  to  he  a  demand  of  an  inconsiderable  sur*  of  money  due  to  some  persons  of  the  name  of  Walsh  anti  Co.  As  he  found  the  letter  did  not  concern  him,  he  was  speaking  to  his  servant  to  deliver  it  back  again  to  the  person  sVho  had  brought  it,  and  tell  him  he  had  made  a  mistake,  when  Butler  and  another  . STYLE=superscript  man  rushed  into  the  room  where  he  was  sitting,  and  told  him  he  was  their  prisoner,  Ile  demanded  to  see  the  a  u.thfurity  on  which  they  acted#  and  Butler  produced  a  writ  directed  against  Sir  Join:  Charles  liarairton.  Ile  immediately  perceived  that  the  men  were  acting  under  a  Mistake,  and  infattned  them  of  their  error  {  telling  them,  at  the  same  time,  that  he  was  a  Member  of  this  [rause,  and  referring  them  to  his  Soricitot  for  their  satisfaction.  Butler  insisted,  however,  that  he  should  go  with  them,  and  as  they  said  they  must  use  force  if  he  refused,  he  consented  to  go  with  them  to  his  Solicitor's,  and  when  they  had  got  as  far  as  V  igo-lane,  they  both  ran  away  from  him,  and  he  saw  no  more  of  them.  He  moved  that  Daniel  Butler  he  called  to  the  Bar.  Daniel  Butler  being  called  in,  the  Speaker  said,  that  a  coritsi  plaint  had  been  preferred  againt  him  of  a  gross  violation  of  the  privileges  of  the  House,  and  asked  him  what  he  hail  to  say  in  extenuation  of  his  conduct.  Btuler  pre  - STYLE=superscript  sented  a  paper,  w  hick  he  •vas  desired  to  read.  He  said  he  could  not  read,  nor  did  he  know  its  contents.  Sir  Cit  A  a  I.ns  HAMILTON  desired  that  he  might  be  asked  . STYLE=superscript  whether  he  had  not  endeavoured  to  *a  tisfy  him  that  he  was  not  the  person  mentioned  in  the  writ  ?  to  which  Butler  aiwvered  he  hall.  Ile  was  then  directed  to  withdraw.  The  NcEct  OR  of  the  EN  C  Egu  nit,  in  a  short  speech•,  condemned  the  conduct  of  the  officer  in  very  severe  terms;  and  moved,  that  by  arresting  an  Honourable  Member  of  that  House,  he  had  been  guilty  of  a  breach  of  the  privilege  of  th:it  House  The  ►notion  being  caroled,  the  Right  Bon.  (icnile•man  next  moved,  that  the  Speaker  he  directed  to  iLsne  his  %%arrant  to  con►,  mit  the  body  of  I)  :girl  Butler  to  the  custody.  of  the  Keeper  of  his  Majesty's  prison  of  Newgate.  Ordered."
