text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  234  of  her  inhabitants  ;  and  the  two  energetic  proclamations,  addressed  by  the  Archduke  CIIARLES  I  one  to  the  army,  and  the  other  to  the  body  of  the  people  at  large,  give  us  reason  to  hope  that  every  faculty  of  the  state  will  be  ad advantageously  vantageously advantageously  employed  to  oppose  the  approaching  danger.  The  force  of  the  enemy,  we  know  from  fatal  experience,  Is  gigantic;  but,  we  maintain,  has  rather  diminished  than  gained  since  the  peace  of  Presburgh.  He  cannot  now  em employ  ploy employ  his  undivided  strength,  as  he  did  during  the  war  previous  to  that  occurrence,  in  an  attack  upon  the  Austrian  frontiers.  He  is  reduced  to  the  absolute  neces necessity  sity necessity  of  maintaining,  at  least,  100,000  men  in  Spain,  if  he  is  determined  to  retain  its  possession  ;  and  that  num number  ber number  is  incompetent  for  the  purpose.  The  French  force  now  in  the  Peninsula  exceeds  it  ;  and  for  the  last  two  months,  if  we  except  the  capture  of  Saragossa.  they  have  done  no nothing  thing nothing  by  any  means  corresponding  with  their  first  exec exec-40119,  -40119, exec-40119,  and  their  vaunted  promises.  In  several  provinces  their  progress  has  been  completely  checked  ;  in  others  they  •  have  sustained  reverses  ;  in  all  they  have  to  awe,  or  to  contend  with  an  impatient  }instil;  population.  If  the  Spaniards,  labouring-  under  the  impression  of  recent  disas disasters,  ters, disasters,  have  been  able  to  stop  them  in  their  career;  it  is  rea reasonable  sonable reasonable  to  hope,  that  when  they  are  assisted  by  a  British  force  of  40,000  men,  conducted  by  the  most  intelligent  and  enterprising  officers  in  our  service,  and  aided  by  Portu Portuguese  guese Portuguese  co-operation  ;  they  will  be  enabled,  with  this  tional  army  of,  at  least,  70,000  men,  to  driv drivfrom  from drivfrom  the  capital,  and  pursue  them  once  .m(  walls  of  Pampeluua  and  Barcelona.  According  to  probability  this  is  not  the  0.  our  Government  will  make  in  favour  of  whole  line  of  Coast  from  Boulogne  to  the  Elbe  mnst  be  carefully  guarded  by  the  there  is  not  a  Tart  of  that  extensive  k  is  not  vulnerable.  And,  if  a  plan  of  host  sued,  w  Lich  has  been  so  frequently  r;:com,  to  the  utility  of  which  we  have  so  often  ad  is  not  a  league  of  Coast,  from  Boul  , STYLE=superscript  :gue  t  where  we  might  not  compel  him  to  keep  a  for  its  protection.  The  services  rendered  h  RAN  r  )  the  imposing-  sanction  of  Lord  N  strongly  recommend  the  expediency  of  part  the  enemy's  shores  ;  10,000  men  arc  adequa  vice,  and  might  occupy  50.000  of  the  eiv2:o  y.  to  the  same  apprehensions  and  alarm  en  the  as  long  as  we  maintain  a  force  in  Sicily.  W  from  thinking  that  the  manners  of  u  arf  dilatory,  or  his  Government  so  benign,  the  implicitly  on  the  services  and  affections  of  hi!  were  Sir  JOHN  STEWART  to  make,  in  the  pre:  an  attack  upon  his  mushroom  kingdom.  Sic  ly  offers  very  great  advantages  a  di%ersion.  If  the  force  under  Sir  Jo.  were  reinforced  with  only  ten  thousand  rn  , STYLE=superscript  sot  only  prevent  Muria's  , STYLE=superscript  from  detaching  an'  BONAPARTE,  hut  reduce  him  to  the  necessit  for  some.  In  every  point  of  view  this  reintl;  advisable  ;  as  occurrences  may  happen,  render  its  co-operation  in  the  neighbourhoo  or  Venice,  decisive  in  favour  of  Austria,  4flversion  towards  either  of  these  points,  ot  - STYLE=superscript  a  hard  contested  campaign,  might  inv  Vie  scale  in  favour  of  that  power;  the  uni  vat  of  a  single  regiment  has  often  decided  nately  fought  engagement.  A  force  of  15,000  rear  of  an  invading  army,  might  stop  it  in  and  force  it  to  renounce  all  the  advantages  after  a  series  of  sanguinary  conflicts.  If  these  observations  be  just,  BONAPA  TIT  150,000  men  minus  at  his  disposal,  than  he  b  1805,  when  he  commenced  the  last  war  a;  lie  has  acgaired,  to  make  up  for  this  loss,  a  49,030  Westphalians  and  Saxons  !  But  wit'  t7nce,  wil!  these  unfortunates  fight  to  support  of  a  tyrant  they  have  so  mach  APRIL  9  test!  If,  in  political  combinations,  we  are  to  take  the  feelings  of  mankind  into  consideration,  the  same  repugnance  must  be  felt  by  every  individual  in  Germa Germany.  ny. Germany.  They  cannot  wish  to  promote  a  system  of  rapine,  which  seals  their  own  misery  and  degradation.  They  are,  in  this  inoineut,  the  most  miserable  slaves.  They  have  neither  country  nor  name  ;  and  their  property  is  diminishing  daily.  Under  the  former  Germanic  consti constitution,  tution, constitution,  the  Princes  now  forming  the  Rhenish  confederacy,  were  indepeodent  Sovereigus,  uncoutrouled  by  foreign  in•  thience,  unless  they  voluntarily  submitted  to  it.  At  pre•  sent  they  are  as  abject  slaves  of  the  Corsican  Upstart,  and,  in  fact,  more  so  than  any  of  his  Marshals.  But  how  different  is  the  present  situation  of  Austria  to  what  it  was  at  the  commencement  of  last  war  !  Her  ar armies  mies armies  are  mere  formidable  and  numerous  ;  unanimity  exists  in  every  order  of  the  state  ;  new  principles  have  been  adopted  ;  the  ancient,  routine  has  been  exploded;  the  affections  of  the  people  have  been  engaged;  tbeir  •  passio  . STYLE=superscript  ,is  are  appealed  to;  the  language  of  patriotism  and  freedom  is  heard  from  the  Chancellery  at  Vienna  •  and  every  sentiment,  every  demonstration,  and  measare,  prochim  a  clew  ern  in  their  administration,  evince  a  better  spirit  in  their  councils,  and  shew  that  the  genius  of  a  Hero  and  a  Patriot  has  triumphed  over  former  intrigues  and  prejudices.  )  P10_TB00007 Olen,  wan  tnis  anal-  ,to  drive  the  invaders  BONAPARTE  AND  MASSENA.  J  ;  mce  more  under  the  ---mm--.  i  1  An  anecdote  of  a  most  extraordinary  nature,  respecting  I  A  the  only  diversion  the  conduct  of  this  t.l  rant  towards  one  of  his  generals,  :air  of  Austria.  The  has,  for  some  days  past,  been  the  topic  of  conversation  to  the  mouth  of  the  ;u  all  the  fasho;nable  circles.  It  has  been  commimis  by  the  enemy;  for  cater!  to  a  nobleman  in  this  country,  by  an  English  offi-  I  'sive  line,  where  he  cer  abroad  it  may  be  says  the  1  of  hostilities  be  Four-  officer'S  letter,  ..  to  have  an  authentic  relation  of  the  at  rccominended,  and  cions  attempt  of  Ponaparie  to  destroy  Massena,  1  shall  state  ,  tfri  len  adverted,  there  it  as  it  was  told  by  a  cre  itlenian  who  had  it  from  Count  is  do“rue  to  the  Adriatic,  Tok'oi,  the  It  essinn  ambss  , STYLE=superscript  ador  at  Bonaparte,  t.  reels  a  military  l'orce  nerthier,  Massena,  and  Count  Tolstoi,  were  on  a  shooting  lered  by  Lord  Coca-  party  .  together  at  Fontainbleau,  the  day  before  the  'Our-  .,  oord  NELsoN's  opinion,  per  left  1.  ranee  for  Eder:.  The  two  former  were  standing  of  partial  descents  on  together  in  the  course  of  the  day,  and  the  two  latter  were  at  'i STYLE=superscript  adequate  for  this  ser-  some  distance  trot»  them,  hut  close  to  each  oilier—when  eiv:iny.  lie  is  exposed  Bonapa.rte  seized  the  favonrabie  motnent  to  tire  directly  en  the  side  of  Naples;  at  Massena,  and  wounded  him  in  tie  face  and  e.,e.  He  then  0  oily.  We  are  very  far',  turned  round  to  Berthier,  and  demanded  who  had  tired  ;  ,  chAT  arc  so  very  cen-  lierillier  replied,  that  he  had  not  discharged  his  gun,  as  iign,  that  he  can  rely  it  was  vet  loaded.  The  tyrant  then  thundered  out—  ns  of  his  new  subjects,  Ou'an  ne  me  repli  q  ue  pas  .  1 STYLE=superscript  ---  ,, STYLE=superscript  Let  me  have  no  the  present  juucture,  ,  Massena,  is  said  to  he  entirely  blind.  'l'olstoi  has  two  on.  shots  thi  °ugh  his  arm.  tages  in  favour  of  1  This  allair  is  so  vaguely  and  so  variously  stated,  that  we  Sir  Joarot  STcwanT  arc  inclined  to  reject  it  as  unauthentic.  Not  that  we  be.  usand  men,  it  would  heve  the  heart  of  BONAPARTE  would  recoil  from  the  per-  ling  any  assistance  to  petration  of  any  atrocity  ;  but  we  think  his  onderstanding  necessity  of  applying  would  suggest  a  less  bungling  me!hod  of  getting  rid  of  an  1  is  reinforcement  were  obnoxious  iudividual.  Masses/A  has  never  been  popular,  (  ippen,  which  might  either  with  the  army,  or  people:  they  acknowledge  his  )ourhood  of  Trieste,  military  talents;  hut  never  failed  to•honour  him  with  the  Austria.  A  trifling  c  title  or  Fripon  (Knave).  His  popularity  r  ould  have  ex-  points,  in  the  event  cited  no  alarm  in  the  breast  of  lioNaesn're,  and,  in  this  I  ght  immediately  turn  respect,  there  are  a  number  of  distinguished  officers  in  I  ;  the  unexpected  arri-  France,  who,  in  consequence  of  their  friendship  to  Mo-  i  decided  a  most  obsti-  REAL:,  stand  very  high  in  the  public.  esteem  ;—these  are  of  15,000  men,  in  the  Licounnr.  and  MACDONALD  ;  neither  of  whom  has  been  1  op  it  in  its  progress,  employed  since  the  trial  of  that  celebrated  General.  Ls-  1  vantages  it  acquired,  FA  VETTE  is  likewise  alive  ;  and  has  a  number  of  partisans.  I  Canyor  is  the  great  favourite  of  the  republicans,  who  1  xspAnTe  has  at  least  are  still  numerous  and  formidable.  But  as  long  as  MOREAU  ian  he  had  m  October  is  in  existence,  he  is  deservedly  the  great  object  of  the  .  war  against  Austria  tyrant's  apprehension  and  jealousy.  We  cannot,  there-  Is  loss,  an  accession  of  fore,  conceive  any  motive  so  imperiously  urgent,  as  to  ',  '  But  with  what.  relne-  ;  induce  Bonaparte  to  commit  so  intemperate  an  act  ;  and  c  ;upport  the  unjust  am-  the  time,  when  it  is  sated  to  have  taken  place,  co  i  n-  i  )  mach  cause  to  de-  kletely  undermines  its  credibility.  litassena  is  saii:  t'  hale  i  •"
