text
"MARCH  26.  FIRE  ARTS.  THE  MONUMENT  Oi  SIR  RALPH  ABERCROMBIE,  EXECUTED  '  BY  WESTMACOTT,  R.  A.  To  perpetuate  the  memory  of  illustrious  actions  as  well  as  the  '  tames  of  Mose  by  whom  such  actions  have  been  performed,  has  been  esteemed  the  province  of  the  arts,  ever  since  the  arts  have  been  in  existence.  Statuary  claims  particularattention  in  this  re respect,  spect, respect,  because  the  materials  it  employs  promise  the  durability  of  ages,  and  the  apparent  difficulty  of  its  labours  awakens  astonish  ment  and  fix  attention.  The  defects  under  which  all  the  per performances  formances performances  of  Statuary  seem  principally  to  be  depressed,  are  a  want  of  distinct  light  and  shadow.  The  glare  of  white  marble  will  not  permit  those  delicate  hollows  which  give  animation  to  features,  and  expression  to  a  whole  figure,  to  be  perceived,  at  any  considerable  distance  ;  and  again  the  general  effect  is  com completely  pletely completely  lost,  if  these  nice  touches  of  the  chissel  are  too  closely  contemplated.  It  is,  therefore,  manifest  that  very  great  atten attention  tion attention  ought  to  be  paid  to  the  position  of  any  piece  of  statuary.  The  light  should  be  contrived  so  to  fall  upon  it  as  to  give  every  possible  advantage  to  the  chief  prominencies  ;  and  if  a  strong  shadow  from  any  part  of  the  building,  in  which  it  is  erected,  can  generally  be  thrown  upon  the  sides  or  inferior  parts  of  the  com composition,  position, composition,  such  a  shadow  ought  not  to  be  neglected.  Indeed  there  seems  to  he  a  great  deal  of  this  sort  of  light  and  shade,  which  the  artist  ought  to  tegard  with  as  much  attention  as  the  architect  undoubtedly  did  in  the  position  of  the  windows  and  columns  of  the  building.  I  am  led  to  these  reflections,  on  the  position  of  pieces  of  statuary,  by  the  subject  under  contemplation.  No  shim shimtion  tion shimtion  could  have  been  more  unfavourable  to  it  than  that  in  which  it  stands.  In  front  the  whole  effect  of  it  is  entirely  lost  ;  and  if  the  spectator  moves  towards  his  left  hand  in  hopes  of  placing  his  eye  in  a  more  commanding  point,  he  soon  finds  himself  wedged  into  a  corner  whence  his  expected  coup  d'eeid  is  contracted  into  a  miserable  side  peep,  which  affords  him  a  very  weak  conception  of  the  whole.  The  window  directly  behind  the  monument  throws  a  dingy  light  upon  the  backs  of  the  heads  of  the  princi principal  pal principal  figures,  and  renders  them  as  flat  and  lifeless,  as  the  profiles  that  are  instantaneously  performed  by  the  new  patent  machine.  Yet  all  this  is  no  further  the  fault  of  the  artist  than  as  the  situation  may  have  been  left  to  his  choice,  or  as  be  may  have  been  compelled  to  conform  himself  to  an  appointed  place.  No  monument  ever  owed  less  to  its  position  than  does  this  labour  of  Mr.  Westmacott.  Placed  in  such  an  unfair  point  of  view,  this  magnificent  group  will  scarcely  meet  the  justice  of  such  critics  as  look  for  general  striking  appearance.  Its  merits  are  obscured;  and,  whatever  deficiencies  it  may  possess,  those  deficiencies  are  strongly  height heightened  ened heightened  by  its  situation.  The  figure  of  Sir  Ralph,  which  is  every  where  intercepted  by  that  of  the  Highlander  who  i•  receiving  him  in  his  arms,  is  still  more  obscured  by  the  light  being  imme immediately  diately immediately  behind  it.  The  features  of  the  magnanimous  Gen°ral,  when  viewed  from  a  small  distance,  are  strongly  marked  with  that  expression  of  resignation  and  victorious  joy  that  elevates  the  man  of  patriotic  courage  ;  the  features  of  the  Highlander  also  are  exquisitely  touched  with  regret  and  warlike  ardour;  but  when  the  spectator  endeavours  to  unite  these  sentiments  to  the  whole  group,  as  it  entirely  is  presented  to  him  at  any  point  of  view  he  may  endeavour  to  obtain,'  he  tinds  no  rF3ible  assimilation  of  ideas  :  the  whole,  as  he  sees  it,  no  where  corresponds  with  its  parts.  But,  whatever  may  be  allowed  for  so  had  a  position,  I  feel  myself  obliged  to  say  that  a  front-view  of  this  monument  could  in  no  direction  of  the  light  be  good.  The  back  of  the  High Highlander  lander Highlander  meets  the  eye  too  prominently  and  destroys  the  interest,  from  the  very  spot  at  which  a  judicious  critic  will  be  the  most  eager  to  observe  it.  It  is  not  but  at  a  considerable  distance,  w  here  every  thing  except  general  effect  :!;  entirely  lost,  that  the  figure  of  Sir  R.  Abercrombie  rises  sufficiently  above  thegroup  his  charger  then  dw  'tllest  ato  a  Galloway  runt,  or  seems  to  be  205  intended  for  oue  of  the  short  steeds  of  the  desart  on  which  we  are  told  the  Mamelukes  were  used  to  make  their  ferocious  excur-  lions:  the  hoisc  gives  us  therefore  the  idea  of  a  conceit  or  misc..  rable  allusion  to  the  country  in  which  the  great  Unintnancler  terminated  his  honourable  career:  I  can  hardly  believe  that  Mr.  Wegtmacott  condescended  to  consult  Theodore  }Wok  !---1  hope  the  reins  and  bit,  hs  well  as  the  spurs  of  Sir  Ralph  are  under  the  chissel  of  Mr.  W.  for  the  leathern  bridle  and  ru4ty  hit,  as  well  as  the  painted  spur  now  attached  to  the  figures  have  a  miserable  appearance.  The  naked  figure  beneath  the  horse  is  a  piece  of  admirable  sculpture.  The  fore-part  of  the  left  ara'  is  however  not  so  well  finished  as  the  rest  of  the  body.  The  extended  hand  upon  the  ground,and  the  indentmeot  of  the  muscles  on  the  shoulder,  are  of  themselves  expressive  of  the  agony  of  intense  pain  ;  while  the  hand  that  still  grasps  at  the  fallen  standard  finely  displays  the  tenacity  of  military  resolution  in  the  moment  of  painful  death.  This  figure,  were  it  original,  would  do  the  sculptor  the  highest  honour.  It  is  however  a  copy.  On  account  of  the  execution,  it  would  be  unseemly  to  regret  the  want  of  uniformity  in  the  costume.  Why  is  the  dying  French  soldier  naked  when  the  British  General  and  the  Highlander  are  correctly  clothed  in  their  proper  garb  ?  surely  it  is  not  the  custom  of  the  British  army  to  strip  the  slain  !  —Or  does  the  artist  mean  this  for  an  allegorical  figure  of  Gallic  power  thus  conquered  and  compelled  to  Lite  the  ground?  In  no  manner  whatsoever  will  it  agree  with  the  rest  of  the  group  :  though  I  must  acknowledge  that  the  worst  that  cam  be  said  of  it  is,  that  it  is  too  good  for  the  rest.  The  Highlander's  left  hand  might  surely  have  been  better  placed  than  under  the  thigh  of  the  General.  The  animation  of  sentiment  is  lost  in  such  a  regular  method  of  helping  a  wounded  man  from  his  horse.  A  common  servant  would  assist  his  master  in  that  manner,  but  an  affectionate  servant,  a  warm-hearted  Highland  soldier,  would  clasp  his  commander  with  less  cere ceremony,  mony, ceremony,  and  would  thereby  impress  the  beholders  with  more  com commiseration.  miseration. commiseration.  The  sphinxes  are  clumsy,  and  are  perhaps  designed  to  be  spee  cimens  of  Egyptian  sculpture.  They  do  no  accord  with  the  group  above  them.  Indeed  the  pedestal  dues  not  sufficiently  elevate  the  monumental  group  above  them,  and  they  have  the  appearance  of  something  more  than  mere  auxiliary  figures.  The  pedestal  ought  to  have  had  more  of  the  Egyptian  character.  With  all  its  faults,  this  is  nevertheless  a  finely  wrought  per performance.  formance. performance.  With  respect  to  secondary  considerations,  such  as  the  turns  of  limbs,  the  ttow  of  drapery,  the  markings  of  features,  and  corporeal  muscles  and  sinews,  it  is  highly  finished,  and  must  he  regarded  as  a  piece  of  workmanship  almost  unrivalled  in  modern  (lines.  But  as  a  whole,  as  a  massive  and  interesting  piece  of  sculpture,  ns  a  group  which  the  pathetic  powers  of  ge genius  nius genius  might  have  exhibited  to  the  feelings  of  a  British  public,  it  is  certainly  very  defective.  Whatever  sensibility  the  sight  of  this  monument  may  awaken,  that  sensibility  will  be  inure  due  to  the  melancholy  and  never-to-he-forgotten  occncion  that  gave  it  rise,  than  to  any  pettims  emanating  from  the  mind  of  the  sculls scullstor.  tor. scullstor.  CH  I  RON.  The  Life  of  the  Great  John,  Duke  of  Marlborough,  which  Bonaparte  has  sent  to  the  present  Duke,  is  perhaps  the  only  remaining  - STYLE=superscript  example  of  a  few.copies  printed  upon  vellum  paper,  and  bound  in  a  most  superb  manner,  by  or order  der order  of  Sarah,  Duchess  of  Marlborough,  in  order  to'  be  presented  to  the  different  monarchs  of  Europe.  Ore  of  the  ornaments,  on  which  much  expence  and  labour  had  been  bestowed,  was  transmitted  by  the  Duchess  to  the  King  of  France;  and  as  this  original  and  splendid  edition  is  now  extremely  scarce,  Bonaparte  has  returned  to  the  family  of  Marlborough  the  copy  which  was  deposited  in  the  French  National  Library.  The  work  was  written  by  Mallet.  the  Poet,  who  received  mow.  from  the  Duchess  of  Marlborough,  as  a  reward  for  his  labour.  POPULAR.  PR  EA  CH  ERS.  No.  XX%  111.  What  wealth  in  •outs,  that  soar,  dire,  range  around;  DiAlaining  limit,  or  from  time  or  place  ;  Aud  hear  at  Once,  in  extensive  hear,  the  Almighty  nut  and  the  Trumpet's  Sound  !  Youria.  REVS  JOLIN  HEWLETTi  B.  Ds  OF  THE  FOUNDLING  CII.IPP.t:  •  A  spirit  of  Oriigious  enquiry  seems  generally  excited;  It  was  natural,  hided&amp;  that  successive  ctittracters  of  the  mi ministers  nisters ministers  of  religion,  extensively  disseminated,  should  attract  more  than  usual  attention  towards  religion  itself.  Young  persons  especially,  with  whom  the  practice  oi  divine  wor worship  ship worship  is  too  ()  ten  the  effect  of  duty  rather  than  of  delight,  Of  necessity  rather  than  of  inclination,  perceived  that  there  was,  in  the  beatific  of  holiness,  something  infinitely  more  estimable  than  they  were  accustomed  to  anticipate.  Thou Thousands,  sands, Thousands,  let.  it  be  hoped,  living  once  alike  indifferent  to  churches  or  chapels,  will  now  exclaim,  with  pious  Dr.  Watts;—  Lord  !  how  delightful  'tis  to  see  A  whole  assembly  worship  thee  !  I  have  been  there,  and  still  would  go;  'Tis  like  a  little  Heaven  below.  Of  this  gratifying  attendance  on  ecclesiastical  ordinances,  our  churches  and  chapels,  reckoning  nothing  on  our  many  other  religious  assemblies;  furnish  incontestible  evidence  . STYLE=superscript  .  Go  where  we  may,  right  or  left,  eastward  or  westward,  from  Lisson-green  to  the  Foundling,  from  St.  James's  in  Piccadilly  to  St.  Mary  at  Hill,  or,  turning  southern,  from  6t.  George's  in  the  Borough  to  the  Asylum  Chapel,  as as*mailed  *mailed as*mailed  audiences,  young  and  old,  however  otherwise  dif differing,  fering, differing,  testify  UnanAnous  concurrence  in  the  performance  of  devotional  engagements:  Whatever  are  the  vices  of  our  age,  it  is  not,  as  it  respects  religion,  the  age  of  prac practical  tical practical  infidelity.  Even  theoretical  infidelity  ceases  now  to  assail  our  ears,  and  insult  our  hearts.  Happy;  therefore;  am  I  to  observe,  independently  and  conscientiously,  of  the  present  preacher,  the  REV.  JOHN  HEWLETT,  that  his  pulpit  labours  are  eminently  calcu calculated  lated calculated  to  impress  the  understandings,  and  improve  the  dispositions,  of  the  numerous  and  respectable  audiences  to  which  they  are  eontinir.lly  addressed.  He  is,  be  it  known,  Morning  Preacher  at  the  Foundling  Hospital  ;  and  his  hearers  being  chiefly  those  who  attend  morning  service,  are  necessarily  less  promiscuous,  and  consequently  more  reputable,  than  numbers  of  such  persons  as  are  seen  thronging  to  the  devotion  of  the  evening.  'The  fact  is  ac acknowledged  knowledged acknowledged  ;  and  the  distinction  is  deserving  of  obser obserration.  ration. obserration.  Of  the  individual  history  of  Mr.  Hewlett,  I  am  enabled  to  state,  accurately  it  is  believed,  that  he  formerly  kept  a  school,  for  some  years,  at  Shacklewell  ;  with  which,  how however,  ever, however,  he  has  parted,  rather  advantageously.  He  is  of  Mag Magdalen  dalen Magdalen  College,  in  Cambridge.  Mr.  Hewlett  is  known  in  the  literary  world,  as  author  of  a  Vindication  of  the  Parian  Chronicle;'  a  tract  which  displays  great  learning  on  the  *abject  of  the  Arundelian  Marbles.  He  has  also  collected  and  published  three  volumes  of  his  Sermons  ;  and  he  is  now  editing  a  New  Edition  of  The  Bible,  originally  under undertaken  taken undertaken  by  the  late  Dr.  Gregory,  which  appears  monthly,  in  parts;  and  which  promises  to  supply  a  truly  valuable  de desideratum  sideratum desideratum  id  our  theological  literature.  It  must  be  seen,  even  Irvin  this  hasty  specification  of  his  exertions,  that  Mr..  Bewlett  is  abundantly  qualified  for  his  clerical  avocations.  There  is  much  impressive  solemnity  both  in  the  person  •od  manner  of  this  preacher.  His  professional  deportment  is  sufficiently  dignified,  and  his  countenance  is  indicative  of  his  sincerity.  His  action,  however,  is  little  varied;  while  his  voice,  naturally  unpowerful,  frequently  becomes  inau inaudible.  dible. inaudible.  This  latter  defect  is  to  be  regretted,  because,  care•  MAIICH  26.  folly  as  Mr.  Hewlett's  Sermons  are  composed,  lie  never  de delivers  livers delivers  an  uninteresting  sentence:  he  says  nothing  but  what  merits  to  be  hearri;  and  much,  very  much,  that  his  hearers  must  be  anxious  to  treasure  up  for  their  own  service.  He  seldom  entangles  himself,  nor  does  he  perplex  others,  with  the  subtilties  of  theology;  or  the  dogmas  of  school-  Practieal,  rather  than  theoretical,  his  reasoning  ap appeals  peals appeals  directly  to  the  understandings  of  his  auditors;  his  il illustrations  lustrations illustrations  are  familiarly  intelligible;  and  his  conclusion*  are  therefore  demonstrative.  Whether  we  are  to  impute  it  to  such  considerations  as  the  foregoing,  Certainly  it  is  sometimes  the  defect  of  Mr.  Hewlett's  discourses,  commonly  with  those  delivered  I.y  many  other  christian  teachers  ;  that  he  expatiates  on  the  necessity  of  possessing  faith  without  explaining  the  method  by  which  it  can  be  obtained.  We  hear  satisfactorily  , STYLE=superscript  of  the  truth,  and  the  life  but  we  do  not  learn  enough  of  66 STYLE=superscript  the  which  .leads•to  truth  in  this  world,  and  to  life  in  the  ne  t.  Easy  is  it  to  -tell  men  to  be  good,  or  to  ex exhort  hort exhort  goo  men  to  the  practice  Of  virtue.  All  the  difficulty  cOtiSists,.  or  it  is  the  work  of  truth,  in  explaining  to  sinners  how  It  is  they  are  to  become  righteous  ;  and  to  invigorate  even  itt  the  bosoms  . STYLE=superscript  of  the  elect,  the  trust  that  endures  to  the  end  V'  This,  nevertheless;  is  the  peat  task  of  him  who,  as  one  of  the  heavenly  workmen,  needs  not  to  be  ashamed  of  his  spiritual  workmanship.  Intelectually  illuminated  as  he  is,  elevated,  as  he  ought  to  feel,  above  particular  prejudices;  I  was  astonished  tis  hear  Mr.  Hewlett  preaching  against  visionary  I  fear,  indeed,  that  it  is  to  some  feeling  of  this  nature  we  must  trace  his  general  reluctance  to  elucidate  '  the  Mys Mystery  tery Mystery  of  Godliness,  however,  it  still  one  of  the  greatest  mysteries  with  which  human  being  are  acquainted;  and  well  does  it  behove  the  Stewards  of  its  whether  men  will  hear  or  forbear,  not  to  shrink  from  .  declaring,  as  they  ,may  know  it,  the  whole  Council  of  God  Standing  between  the  Maker  and  the  creature,  the  pillar  of  cloud  by  day  and  of  fire  by  night,  let  the  minister  of  religion,  wheresoever  situated;  shake  the  diet  of  this  earth  from  his  feet:  ONEsiltes.  March  23t1t4  1809.  PROII.NrIA  LS.  SURREY  ASSIZES.  Ilti*GSTO!l,  THURSIS.I  Y,  MARCH  23.  William  John  Speed,  a  Lieutenant-Colonel  in  the  arms',  wn  indicted  for  bigamy,  in  Marrying  Ann  Thorn,  his  former  wife  he•  ing  still  living.  it  appeared  that  the  prisoner  at  the  far,  in  the  year  17f5,  was  an  Ensign  in  the  Mattines,  and  became  acquaint acquainted  ed acquainted  with  a  Miss  Nelson,  whose  father  wai  then  an  Alderman,  and  who  had  been  a  Mayor  of  London.  He  married  that  Lady  on  the  9th  of  September  1189,  at  the  Parish  of  Furneux  Pelham,  In  the  county  of  Hertford.  He  continued  with  his  wife  fur  some  years,  and  had  children  by  her,.  but  in  consequence  of  hat  propriety  of  conduct  on  his  parts  she  was  compelled  to  seek  re refuge  fuge refuge  with  her  father,  and  in  the  year  1192  articles  of  separation  were  signed  between  them.  The  prisoner  was  abroad  for  some  time,  and  in  the  year  1799  he  lodged  In  the  house  of  a  Mr.  Thorn  a  respectable  market  gardener,  near  Putney.  Ile  soon  found  means  to  insinuate  himself  into  the  favour  of  hii  second  daughter,  and  she  was  persuaded  to  marry  hini.  Ile  represented  himself  as  a  Lieut.-Colonel  in  the  Army,  and  as  one  having  the  best  ex expectations.  pectations. expectations.  His  marriage  with  •Miss  Nelson,  and  his  identity  being  proved,  Miss  Thorn  deposed,  that  the  .  Prisoner  came  to  lodge  at  hot.  father's  on  the  dth  of  October,  1799,  and  she  mar married  ried married  him  in  the  November  following.  After  1w  had  lived  with  her  about  five  filalltilS  he  went  to  Halifax,  and  left  her  pregnant.  lie  never  contributed  far  the  support  of  the  child.  The  ptkoner  said  he  had  erred  thrn*-h  ignarance.  Aftet  signing  a  deed  of  separation  from  his  wife,  he  instituted  a  suit  in  the  Ecclesiastical  Court,  either  to  compel  Iris  wife  to  return  td  him,  or  to  get  an  absolute  separation  s  and  in  a  motion,  which  was  made  in  the  King's  Bench,  for  a  prohibition,  Lord  Kenyon  had  said  from  the  Bench,  that  after  that  deed  he  was  as  free  at  air.  Thinking  himself  thus  free  from  restraint,  he  did  marry  Nliss  Thorn,  and  continued  with  her  anti)  his  tonal''  , STYLE=superscript  duties  called  biaralma&amp;"
