text
"TIE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  APRIL  9.  EAST  17.0  . STYLE=superscript  11:01A  HOURS.--The  following  ships  were  thus  sta stationed  tioned stationed  and  timed,  viz.  Henry  Addington,  Captain  Kirkpatriek,  Bengal  direct,  to  be  afloat  the  14th  of  April,  sail  to  Gravesend  the  30th  ditto,  stay  there  30  days,  and  be  in  the  Downs  the  sixth  of  June.  -  Charlton,  Captain  Wood  ;  Windham,  Stewart—Madeira  and  Bengal.  Lady  Lashingtoni  Nicholls;  Sarah  Christiana,  Mac Mackeson  keson Mackeson  ;  William  Pitt,  Crowder  ;  Sir  William  Pulteney,  Chris Christopher—Bengal  topher—Bengal Christopher—Bengal  direct.  Union,  Gaillard  ;  Northampton,  San Sanders—Madeira  ders—Madeira Sanders—Madeira  and  Bombay:  To  be  afloat  the  SOth  April,  sail  to  Gravesend  the  11th  of  May,  stay  there  20  days,  avid  be  in  the  Downs  the  9th  of  June.  The  three  regiments  of  Foot  Guards  are,  by  order  of  Sir  David  Dundas,  the  new  Commander  in  Chief,  to  be  reduced  to  their  original  complement  of  six  thousand  men  ;  the  battalions  which  are  doing  duty  at  Chatham;  &amp;c.  are  to  be  called  in,  and  likewise  all  recruiting  parties,  and  the  whole  corps  is  in  future  to  be  confined,  as  to  duty,  to  London  and  Windsor.  General  Brenier,  who  was  taken  prisoner  in  the  battle  of  Vimiera,  is  either  gone,  or  is  about  to  take  his  departure  for  France.  The  exchange  of  General  Abercrombie  has  not,  we  believe,  been  yet  effected,  though  there  is  some  ground  for  hoping  that  the  proposition  to  exchange  him  fo.ii  Brenier  will  he  accepted.  General  Abercombie  is  now  at  Verdun,  as  has  been  stated  in  most  of  the  papers.  Ile  was  arrested  in  pas.ing  through  France,  at  the  period  of  the  last  rupture,  but  he  has  been  for  several  years  in  England  on  his  parole.  Yearly  the  whole  of  the  foundation  of  the  late  Drury  Lane  Theatre  remains  perfect,  and  the  immense  archways  are  uninjured,  which  will  be  a  very  considerable  saving  in  the  event  of  the  re-building  a  new  Theatre.  The  materials  now  on  the  ground  are  estimated  to  be  worth  12,000/.  and  the  workmen  are  making  great  progress  in  piling  the  bricks  and  removing  the  rubbish.  POLICE.  Ms  tt  T.nostottotr-STa  ET.—A  man  of  fashion,  whose  name  it  would,  perhaps,  be  imprudent  at  present  to  meution,  has  been  'several  days  in  confinement,  on  the  charge  of  having  been  guilty  of  a  disgusting  crime  in  the  Park,  about  ten  days  ago.  He  yesterday  underwent  a  second  examination.  The  witnesses  against  him  were  two  persons  of  good  character,  who  saw  the  transaction.  A  soldier  belonging  to  the  Guards  was  the  pri-.  soner's  companion  at  the  time  of  his  detection  ;  but  the  former  escaped  %k  ith  the  aid  of  a  bludgeon  he  held  in  his  hand.  The  pri.  sinter  carefully  hid  his  face,  yesterday,  during  his  examination  w  ith  a  handkerchief  he  held  against  his  forehead,  so  that  no  one  could  possibly  identify  his  person.  He  was  committed.  •  Another  charge  of  a  different  nature  was  heard  a  few  days  ago  which  will  furnish  matter  for  a  Jury,  highly  disgraceful  to  the  accused.  The  charge  is  against  a  person  in  good  circumstances  for  violating  the  daughter  of  his  friend,  a  child  twelve  years  old,  and  in  the  lonise  of  her  parent.  The  offender  is  the  child's  god godfather,  father, godfather,  a  circumstance  which  adds  to  the  enormity  of  the  offence.  Bow-STREET.--A  woman  has  been  in  custody  for  several  days,  on  a  charge  of  uttering  counterfeit  shillings,  at  Ilford  and  its  neighbourhood  ;  and  after  undergoing  several  examinations,  she  confessed  that  she  became  possessed  of  them  by  purchasing  them  of  a  man  of  the  name  of  Bowles,  who  resided  in  George Georgestreet,  street, Georgestreet,  Bethnal-green,  at  the  rate  of  10s.  for  11.  ;  and  it  being  a  principal  object  with  Mr.  Towel,  the  Solicitor  of  the  Mint,  to  admit  her  an  evidence  for  the  Crown,  he  employed  Humphreys  Limberick,  and  Jones,  to  lay  a  scheme  with  the  woman  to  corroborate  her  testimony  against  Bowles,  which  they  accord.  iogly  did.  They  gave  her  ten  shillings  with  marks  on  them,  by  which  they  could  identify  them,  and  sent  her  to  purchase  twenty  counterfeit  shillings,  on  Saturday  evening,  to  Bowles's  house.  The  officers  waited  on  the  outside  of  the  house  s  ,  and,  on  her  coming  out,  and  learning  that  she  had  made  her  purchase,  they  knocked  at  the  door,  and  having  gained  admittance,.  they  searched  Bowles  and  his  wife,  and  found  upon  her  the  ten  marked  shillings,  which  the  woman  had  paid  for  the  purchase  of  the  .counterfeit  shillings,  and  160  counterfeit  snillings.  On  .  Bowles  were  found  several  counterfeit  shillings,  In  the  house  was  found  the  copper  trimmings  of  the  shillings,  and  cream  of  tartar  in  an  earthen  vessel  to  colour  '  were  examined  before  Mr.  Read,  any  J  qii  P14_TB00018 •  them.--On  Tuesday  they  ~,  I  coutatitted  fur  t  60.  l4 STYLE=superscript  PI"
