text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  41  and  concealed  apprehension.  The  regularity,  with  which  they  are  transmitted  to  tuis  country,  confirms  our  suspi suspicions;  cions; suspicions;  and  We  see  every  reason  to  conclude,  that  the  spirit  of  the  Span**  is  es  unbroken  as  it  was  in  the  first  ino inomeat  meat inomeat  of  resistance.  The  inhabitants  of  Leon.  Asturias,  Gallicia,  and-  Castille,  as  soon  as  the  severity  of  the  wea weather  ther weather  has  abated,  which  is  intense  in  those  Provinces,  during  .  the  course  of  the  winter,  will  resume  their  offensive  opera operations  tions operations  against  their  invaders.  It  could  not  be  expected  that  the  poor  naked  peasants  should  display  that  sublime  energy  •  as  tO  brave  all  the  rigours  of  the  season,  in  their  dreary  •  mountains  and  fastnesses,  without  tents,  shoes,  hats,  and  the  most  indispensable  articles  of  clothing.  The  writers  of  several  papers,  who,  for  the  miserable  purposes  of  faction  t  or  to  gratify  their  abhorrence  of  every  their,  that  is  great  and  good,  condemn  the  lulcevrarmness  of  those  poor  people,  should  have  at  least  the  impertiality  to  remind  their  readers  of  the  sublime  examplea  of  devotion  to  the  cause  of  their  country  these  peasants  gave  at  the  battle  of  Rio  Seco,  ani  in  several  other  engage,  cents  under  General  MAKS.  hunger,  excessive  cold,  and  want  of  clothing,  drove  them  at  last  to  their  homes  ;  from  whence  they  will  issue  with  renewed  energy,  as  soon  es  the  mild  influence  of  the  sun  renders  fire  and  warm  clothing  unnecessary.  It  is  easy  for  those  ignorant  brutal  declaimers declaimersenjoying  enjoying declaimersenjoying  the  comforts  of  an  English  fire  side,  to  rant  about  patriotism,  privations,  &amp;C.  and  to  treat  the  poor  Asturian  and  Gallician  mountaineers  with  contempt,  because  they  are  not  capable,  en  masse,  of  displaying  a  degree  of  per perseverance  severance perseverance  and  energy,  almost  beyond  the  reach  of  human  nature.  The  extreme  poverty  of  the  country,  would  ex expose  pose expose  them'at  the  same  time  to  the  danger  of  starvation.  ;lad  they  persevered  in  the  romuantie  design  of  guarding  their  passes  against  the  invaders.  The  inhabitants  of  the  South  are  not  exposed  to  these  inconveniences.  Their  mild  climate  and  fruitful  soil  enable  them  to  sustain  the  rigour  of  a  winter  campaign.  The  'pring  commences  there  about  the  middle  of  this  month  4  and  thus  the  tyrant's  plah  is  frustrated  of  terminating  the.  business  during  the  winter.  An  armed  peasantry  are  na naturally  turally naturally  obliged  to  retire  to  their  homes  during  the  incle inclemency  mency inclemency  of  that  season  ;  but  if  their  spirit  be  the  same.,  as  we  have  no  reason  to  doubt  it,  and  it  continues  so  during  the  Spring  and  Summer,  BONAPARTE,  s  willob  the  number  of  soldiers  he  has  at  his  disposal,  he  able  to  make  no  impression  on  the  country.  The  desultory  and  irregular  mode  of  war  the  Spaniards  will  probably  wage  fur  the  future,  will,  by  degrees,  consume  hiS  forces.  ‘Vhen  he  least  expects  it.  new  armies  will  appear  in  his  rear,  oft  his  flanks  and  in  front.  His  detachments  will  be  cut  off;  he  will  be  straitened  for  provisions  ;  he  will  be  harassed  incessantly  on  every  side.  During  the  spring  and  summer  eights,  a  constant  alarm  will  be  kept  up  in  the  quarters  of  his  several  corps  ;  and,  according  to  human  probability.  Austria,  as  well  as  other  states,  will  give  him  some  occupa occupation  tion occupation  about  that  t  i STYLE=superscript  me.  Would  it  then  be  politic,  or  honourable  in  oar  Govern Government,  ment, Government,  under  these  circumstances,  to  relax  in  its  exertions,  or  despond  of  success  ?  Are  are  unwilling  to  entertain  that  paltry  opinion  of  the  understandings  and  hearts  of  British  Ministers.  With  a  particle,  even,  of  vulgar'  ambition;  with  a  desire  to  have  their  names  *recorded  heyOnd  the  precincts  of  the  church  - STYLE=superscript  yard  , STYLE=superscript  in STYLE=superscript  which  oil  . STYLE=superscript  shall  be  One  day  entered;  with  the  Slightest  wish  to  promote  the  fame  and  preponderance  of  their  co  s  untry  l  . STYLE=superscript  they  will  persevere  P9_TB00006 4.  1‘  ';  1 STYLE=superscript  4  1  k  a STYLE=superscript  k  i  l STYLE=superscript  t,  1 STYLE=superscript  }k:  1  t  I  ,  It  4 STYLE=superscript  1,  '  V  ki  ki  i  1  I  1  /  ,1  ,  1.1  P9_TB00007 I  ..  ..  ----353111111 STYLE=superscript  111111P  44111 STYLE=superscript  42  1..  .1,  1.  .;  '.  f STYLE=superscript  77!'  i  •  •  '  i  .  1  .1 STYLE=superscript  1;  0  i  I  •  '  I  ..i  ' STYLE=superscript  i  ?  •••  '  ,  i  ;  t  i.  S STYLE=superscript  I  i  1  11 STYLE=superscript  •  I  r  ' STYLE=superscript  I  1  , STYLE=superscript  !  i  .  1  I  '4  A  i  !  41  tl STYLE=superscript  !  !II  I  I  .  .  JAN.  1.5"
