text
"APRIL  9.  James's  Church,  in  Piccadilly.  Since  the'  present  v  enerable  and  excellent  Bishop  of  London  ascended  the  sane  pulpit,  with  the  same  view  to  do  good  ;  our  Church  has  produced  nothing  of  snch  apparent  importance  as  Dr.  Andrewes's  illustration  and  vindication  of  her  Liturgy.  His  discourses  excited  universal  consideration  in  the  metropolis,  and  were  fashionably  and  numerously  attended.  •  Feb.  8,  lieos.  ONESIMCS.  110  I'AL  CIRCU,s;  (EASTER  MONDAYS)  SVPERINTENDED  B)  MR.  ELLI.STON.  Your  Pattonage  is  our  Support.  Motto  exhibited  by  the  Circus  Company,  I'o  enter  Sadler's  Wells,  or  Astley's  Amphitheatre,  or  the  Itoyal  Circus,  especially  on  what  ate  called  holidays,  is  to  enter  into  the  temple  of  English  pastime;  and  he  who  repairs  thither,  go  when  he  may,  should  make  up  his  mind  to  be  for  one  night  an  Englitliman.  Full  of  the  good  Old  good-humour  of  his  forefathers,  he  most  laugh  vr  ith  those  who  laugh,chuckle  at  many  a  rough  joke,  pleasantly  overhear  the  observations  made  around  him,  and  put  up  with  occasional  elbnwings,  together  with  some  few  treads  co  his  toes.  If  he  cannot  do  this,  he  . STYLE=superscript  .voule  do  better  to  reuraia,at  home.  Affectation  finds  here  wo  indulgence.  Here  teigns  the  majesty  of  the  people,  which,  if  judicious  deference  be  pain  to  it,  is  infinitely  more  tolerable  than  many  other  de descriptions  scriptions descriptions  of  majesty.  Yes;  one  must  learn  to  bear,  in  such  a  place*  The  smoke  of  lamps,  The  pent-up  breath  of  an  unsavory  throng  More,  however,  remains  to  be  done.  One  must,  as  well  as  &#34;'  the  self-complacent  himself  delight  to  enjoy  The  slope  of  faces,  from  the  floor  to  the  rolf,  As  if  one  master  spring  controul'd  them  all  ►  Itelax'd  into  an  universal  grim!  This  evening's  entertainments  (Monday,  April  3)  having  keen  announced  as  got  up  Under  the  immediate  superintend superintendance  ance superintendance  and  direction  of  Mr.  Elliston,  of  the  late  Theatre•Royal,  Drury.  numbers  of  persons  crowded  early  to  the  scene  of  exhibition,  and  the  pit  and  galleries  were  completely  filled  before  six  o'clock.  A  new  Pantomimienl  Prologue,  containing,,  among  other  matters,  complimentary  allusions  to  the  new  Man  . STYLE=superscript  lger,  badly  delivered  by  Mrs.  Hatton,  introduced  us,  very  to  our  old  favorite  51r.  Johannot.  Ilis  song  of  Easter  Monday,  or  Dicky  Awl's  trip  to  Greenwich,  was  aptly  colt coltteived,  teived, coltteived,  and  most  successfully  given  by  this  excellent  comic  singer.  Of  the  meto•dratnatic  spectacle  entitled  Albert  and  .4  dela,  which  was  next  presented  to  view,  it  is  not  possible  to  speak  in  terms  of  high  commendation.  There  is  something  of  plot,  and  even  nnder-plot,  about  this  piece:  hut,  perhaps,  owing  to  the  restrictions  to  which  theatrical  representation  is  confined  at  these  places,  it  failed  to  interest  the  feelings  of  the  audience;  and,  however  splendid  in  scenery,  scarcely  retained  their  uttentioa  as  spectators.  Its  best  merit  consisted  in  its  developing,  though  not  with  sufficient  force,  practices  of  Inqui Inquisition  sition Inquisition  Tribunals.  Many  of  its  processions  were  really  striking.  Whether  this  was  occasioned  by  the  mob  in  the  Ride,  who  could  with  difficulty  crowd  themselves  upon  the  stage.  so  it  was,  however,  that  the  good  were  not  fully  satisfied  with  the  Horsemanship  of  the  night.  It  was  contrived,  there therefore,  fore, therefore,  by  means  of  a  truly  Comic  Song  in  Character,  or  the  Irish  Cabin,  by  Mr.  Nessus,  to  keep  up  the  play  of  mirth.  The  Musical  Department,  to  say  truth,  reflects  credit  on  Mr.  Sander Sanderson;  son; Sanderson;  who  is  here  Composer,  and  Leader  of  the  Band.  Now  came  the  display  of  Harlequin's  &amp;source  ;  or  The  Witch  of  Ludlam.  Considering  this  pantomime  as  partly  new,  and  partly  comprising  the  most  favorite  of  two  preceding  pantomimes,  ice  composition  is  far  from  di:reputable  to  the  taleuts  of  Mr.  Giroux.  Jun,  It  was  here  we  saw  Mr.  Eller  said  Mr.  Montgomery  to  their  full  advantages  both  of  them  were  as  deservedly,  as  repeatedly,  applauded,  The  admirers  of  kicking  and  thumping  in  particular—when  applied  to  any  back  or  breach  saving  their  own  !--awere  frequently  convulsed  with  merriment,  and  sometiifies  gaping.  with  astonishment  at  the  athletic  and  pugilistic  feats  of  Pantaloon,  and  the  clown.  Girtmx  still  wants  effect  as  Columbine:  her  movements  are  'mot  sufficiently  s)lphiad,  and  her  agility  boi  too  mach  avrkard avrkard/tins.  /tins. avrkard/tins."
