text
"itl2  confidence,  or  lay  claims  to  friendship.  They,  conse consequently,  quently, consequently,  exercised  no  other  influence,  and  obtained  no  fur further  ther further  information,  than  what  they  were  able  to  do  in  their  officio/  capacity.  Favour  more  than  merit  regulated  the  nominatio3  even  to  this  chart;e,  in  which  versatility  of  tilent  and  suavity  of  manners  arc  pre-eminently  requi requis.e.  s.e. requis.e.  It  can  he  no  gratifying  task  to  recur  to  a  period,  which  has  not  left  a  single  monument  of  our  wisdom,  a  trace  of  well  directed  energy,  a  proof  of  progressive  improvement,  or  increased  security.  The  occurrences  were  trans transcendently  cendently transcendently  favorable  to,  and  powerfully  urged,  the  deve develo;iement  lo;iement develo;iement  of  great  virtues  and  great  talents;  but  our  ex exertions  ertions exertions  never  rose  beyond  the  level  of  vulgar  acquire acquirements,  ments, acquirements,  and  our  civic  duties  were  confined  within  the  nar narrow  row narrow  circle  of  ordinary  sacrifices.  Our  thoughts  and  our  actions  bore  the  stamp  of  mediocrity  ;  whilst  every  passing  eveut  was  calculated  to  communicate  unusual  impressions,  to  suggesi,  the  necessity  of  extraordinary  efforts.  Govern Government  ment Government  during  that  interval  seemed  rather  impressed  with  the  utility  of  imposing  political  restrictions,  than  of  multiply multiplying  ing multiplying  the  moral  resqurces  of  the  state,  by  enlarging  the  pri privileges  vileges privileges  of  the  subject.;  though  the  accumulating  dangers  of  the  community  required  the  full  exercise,  and  the  widest  stretch  of  the  virtue  and  vigour  of  its  respective  mem:iers.  The  old  routine  which  regulated  and  disgraced  the  nomiyuition  to  offices  in  the  most  sluggish  and  uniform  years,  was  adhered  to  ;  and  intrigue  thrust  in  mere  mini minions  ons minions  of  favour,  vulgar  instruments  of  corruption,  to  the  exclusion  of  merit,  experience,  and  patriotism.  Our  dis discipline  cipline discipline  and  vigilance  relaxed  in  proportion  as  our  dangers  and  diflicidties  encreased  ;  and  the  grossest  violations  of  public  duty,  the  most  flagrant  delinquency,  were  tole tolerated,  rated, tolerated,  or  srreened  from  punishment,  at  a  juncture,  when  Roman  severity  and  civism  were  urgently  requisite.  In  a  word,  our  expedients,  our  regulations  were  ordinary  ;  thong!'  our  embarrassments  NVere  unprecedented,  and  our  danei•  accumulating.  The  decrease  of  our  foreign  influence  kept  pace  with  the  increasing  w'e:ll.iiess  and  inexpediency  of  our  measures  at  home.  Our  local  peculiaritA-,  and  the  spirit  of  our  insti institutions.  tutions. institutions.  gave  us  the  stronge,;  ci.aims  to  the  confidence  and  w;sbei  of  the  greater  part  of  our  neighbours  ;  but,  from  fiorne  fatalitv  in  our  mai:ner,  our  ;:vices  were  re requited  quited requited  wit!!  coldness,  our  pciaered  friendship  excited  sus suspicion.  picion. suspicion.   have  had  the  mortification  to  see,  that  states,  - STYLE=superscript  which  were  peculiarly  invited  to  connect  themselves  with  us,  a;  well  from  incidental  circumstances  and  the  force  of  habitual,  long  esiablished  alliance,  as  from  the  power powerful  ful powerful  sense  of  nlutual  danger  and  reciprocal  interest,  declined  even  in  the  last  struggle  for  existence,  in  the  very  ag,:av  of  their  inclenemience,  our  direct  interference  and  active  sup support.  port. support.  'Whitt  renders  this  suspicMll  the  iitere  painful  is  the  certainty.  thai  neifher  the  moral  reputation  of  the  com community.  munity. community.  nor  the  idea  of  imaginar  prepondi:i-ance  justify  its  existeace.  Some  might,  perhaps,  console  themselves  at  this  less  of  fortner  reputatien,  by  that  inisQrable  plea  of  levity  and  indiscretion,—Mat  ire  .4;auld  attach  no  impor importance  tance importance  16,  and  ereu  despise,  the  judgtmen:s  of  mankind,  if  . STYLE=superscript  theNeo  :201  coincit'c  vith  our  0z,:.7  good  opinion  qf  oursetres.  This  resolution  is  the  last  resort  of  the  sublimest  phitos phitosphy  phy phitosphy  and  the  most  conscious  virtue,  struggling  against  a  pi  , STYLE=superscript  geese  generation  ;  but  among  the  rest  of  men  it  is  a.  r-,  symptom  of  extreme  rashness  and  indiscretion,  or  of  a  ',la)  extinction  of  moral  fe..ling.  Nations,  in  many  in instances,  stances, instances,  but  supremely  so  in  this,  deserve  to  be  considered  and  estimated  according  to  the  same  principles  as  indivi indivithials.  thials. indivithials.  Tl)eir  greatest  and  most  useftti  qualities  arc  ren rendered  dered rendered  hiefrectnal  to  themselves,  as  well  as  to  others,  if'  the  reit  of  the  -world,  arc  unwilling  to  acknowledge  their  va vab:ify  b:ify- vab:ify  and  splendour.  They  are,  in  fact,  like  lamps  burn burnin  in burnin  a  tomb,  consuming  and  casting  to  no  purpose.  political  theories  it  would  he  hazardous  to  calculate  on  ;,  , STYLE=superscript  :acrosily  of  govcrualcuLs  ;  but,  as  a  great  inauulac-  P2_TB00004 •"
