text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER'.  JAN.  Q.  J.  R.  Lavender,  Midshipman.  •  John  Munro,  ditto.  Matthew  WalJiar,  Boatswain.  Coinpieliteht—=  Alen  Lost-212  Men.  I  Posit•agei;  1  Passenger  Ill'opten  W  .meu  I  Child  I  Child  80  Total.  ..  Souls  Lost.  LOSS  OP  HIS  MAJESTY'S  SHIP  ROOK:  The  following  partictilari  respecting  the  rapture  of  big  Majesty's  schooner  Rook,  Were  cdminunicated  in  a  letter  from  the  Master,  who  succeeded  Lieutenant  Lawrence  in  the  command  of  the  ship:  and  froth  the  mouth  of  the'  only  survivor  of  the  iinfortimate  crew  who  has  hitherto.  teached  England,  and  who  himself  was  shot  through  the  wrist  and  shoulder,  besides  some  wounds  with  a  cutlass  The  Rook;  bieuteliant  James  Lawrence;  satled  front  Ply  mouth,  under  the  orders  of  Admiral  Thing,  on  the  '24th  of  Rile,  1808,  with  dispatches  for  the  West  Indies.  After  a  tine  pastoge  she  arrived  - STYLE=superscript  at  Jamaica,  from  vs  hence,  after  haVing  waited  a  fel  days  to  refit,  and  take  in  species  she  sailed  for  England  August  13th.  For  two  days  they  were  follotted  by  a  French  schooner  (which  is  .pretty  ge=  nerally  the  case  when  a  ship  has  any  money  on  board,  and  of  which  intelligence  is  soon  gained  at  some  of  the  French  Islands),  but  whom  they  beat  if.  On  the  18th  of  August;  at  daylight,  they  fell  in  with  two  French  schooners,  and  immediately  cleared  for  action  ;  on  the  largest  vessel  tom=  ing  afongsCde  with  English  tolouris  and  nit  answering  When  hailed,  but  immediately  hoisting  FrenCh  colours,  Lieut.  Lawrence  shot  the  French  Captain,  when  a  most  desperate  action  commenced  ;  after  an  hour's  hard  fight fighting,  ing, fighting,  Lieut.  1..  received  his  last  wound  by  a  musket-ball  ;  and  the  Rook  was  immediately  carried  by  boarding,  the  French  officers  repeatedly  calling  to  the  men  to  give  no  quarter.  ,‘  Mr.  Stewart,  the  Master,  recived  seven  most  despe desperate  rate desperate  wounds  with  a  cutlass;  of  whch  he  afterwards  reco recovered,  vered, recovered,  but,  I  am  sorry  to  add,  is  since  dead  of  the  yellow  fever.  Mr.  Donnelly,  the  Clerk,  way  also  dangerously  wounded  in  the  griffin,  but  is  now  recovered.  George  Reed,  an  officer  in  the  Royal  Artillery,  who  hAS  served  his  country  on  the  Island  of  Jamaica  for  VO  years,  and  wlui  was  related  by  marriage  to  Lieutenant  Lawrence,  was  in  diiced  to  embark  on  board  the  Rook,  with  a  very  consi considerable  derable considerable  property,  in  hopes  to  revisit  his  native  country,  but  was  inhumanly  killed  by  the  enemy  when  boarding  ;  and  so  eager  were  they  to  get  poSsession  of  a  valuable  ring  which  he  happened  to  have  on  his  finger,  that  they  nearly  cut  his  hand  off  to  attain  it.  The  swrvivors  were  stripped  naked,  put  in  their  boat,  and  turned  adrift  ;  but  by  the  exertions  of  four  who  were  not  wounded,  Oey  reached  land,  and  were  most  hospitably  received  by  the  natives.  The  Rook  was  so  much  damaged  that  the  enemy  could  not  get  her  into  port,  and  therefore  set  fire  to  her.  TUESDAY'S  LONDON  GAZETTE.  PARTNERSHIPS  nissotirED.  Anderson,  Watson,  J.  Swan  and  G.  Swan,  topperschiths.  P.  Royston,  Blackwell,  Proctor  and  Dakin,  Sheffield,  stove.makers,  Thompson  and  Dalhy,  Great  Yarmouth;  hat-Makers.  IL  Cooper  and  W.  Cooper,  Leicester,  Pitkatd  and  W.  Pickard,  Moorrieldi,  hreethes-tnantilacturers.  M  Cole  Laing;  Cannon-row.  Westniklaster.  surveyors.  Gpootry  Beardmore,  Y  ew  eastle-tindee•Ly  ne,  linen-drapers.  Homer  awl  Batten  t  a  Newbury,  Berkshire,  harge-  ma  s  ter..  Breyer  said STYLE=superscript  Co.  11Wochester,  cotton-merchants.  Lloyd  and  Rnbley,  Salford,  Lancashire,  common  brewers.  Whiteside,  Peet,  and  Liverpool.  Shiiiliff,  Wilkinson,  Mathers  and  Rvcroft,  ntk,  merchatnt4;  Olive  and  \term..  St:  Catherinco-treei,  To  f'l  . STYLE=superscript  Pre.;  cinct,  shoe-makers.  It,  Platt  and  Sna  , STYLE=superscript  ,  MOO,  V  ksh;  re,  cloth:manufacturers.  Ithhins  and  Fo%!erj  ievadenh:iik.'ireeti  glassineu:  Hawn  !sod  4Qiiie  j  ficitLdAei  Lantaels;re  j  coach;  P14_TB00020 I  t  o  ,  I  ..'  •  •  ,  i  ,  I  .  •  ,t,  •  11  111 STYLE=superscript  ''i  P14_TB00021 I.  i"
