text
"Tilt  NATIONAL  REGIgTBIt.  JAN.  A.  The  enetity's  artily  beaten  at  Tude  Catalavncl,  abandon abandonird  ird abandonird  by  its  Generals,  and  a  great  number  of  soldiers,  was  reduced  to  6000  men.  On  the  Bth,  at  thidnight,  the  Duke  - STYLE=superscript  of  13ft-in  attaeltd,  at  Santa  4 STYLE=superscript  a  Whith  coveted  the  tight  of  the  enemy's  army.  that  carps  WAs  closely  pursued,  and  it  thousand  prisoners  taken.  It  wiohOd  tO  throw  its4if  into  Andalusia  by  Aladriclego.  It  ap appears  pears appears  to  havt  ben  forced  to  disperse  hi  tlit  Of  Cuenca.  EiclitttEXTrt  IItLLETIN  otA  titt  Patmlb  tit  SPAIN:  MADAM,  nee.  Ile.-&amp;-The  Central  SOnta  Of  Spaln  had  hut  'little  power  t  the  greater  part  of  the  provinces  paid  It  little  'submission.,  and  all  orthent  'deprived  it  of  the  administration  of  the  finances.  It  was  under  the  Influence  of  the  lowest  cross  of  the  people  t  It  Was  governed  by  the  minority.  Florida  Bianca  wns  withtsul  any  tfedit.  The  Junta  was  under  the  (•ontroul  of  two  men.  the  one  named  Lortinto  Calvo,  a  grocer  of  Saragemsu,  *who  had  in  a  few  months  obtained  the  title  of  Estettency.  tie  Is  one  of  those  violent  Men  who  appear  in  revolution—his  ho honesty  nesty honesty  Was  more  than  suspected,  The  tither  is  called  Tilly;  for formerly  merly formerly  condemned  to  the  gallies  Its  a  thief  t  the  younger  brother  of  a  man  of  the  name  of  Gasman,  who  formerly  played  a  part  tinder  tktstrepierre  during  the  reign  M  Terror.  As  soon  as  any  of  the  Members  of  the  Junta  opposed  the  violent  measures  that  'were  propaste-,  these  two  wretches  called  out  Treason:,  and  im.  inediately  a  tent)  Was  c6llected  under  the  windows  of  Aranitiez.  The  extravagance  and  wickedness  of  these  dangerous  men  mani manifested  fested manifested  itself  upon  all  occasions.  As  soon  as  they  learnt  that  the  Emperor  was  at  Burgos,  and  he  would  soon  be  at  Madrid,  they  pahlished  a  declaration  of  war  against  France,  replete  with  itt-  , STYLE=superscript  stilts  and  folly.  On  the  Ilth,  when  the  neutral  Of  Division  Lassalle,  Who  *as  pursuing  the  enemy,  arrived  at  Talavera  de  Reyna,  where  the  English  had  passed  triumphantly  ten  days  before,  saying  they  'were  going  to  ilelleve  the  capital,  ft  frightful  spectacle  met  the  goes  of  the  French.  A  hotly  cloathed  in  the  uniform  of  a  Spa Spasiish  siish Spasiish  General  was  suspended  from  a  gallows,  'Mid  pierced  With  a  thousand  bullets.  It  was  Gen.  Benito  San  ofean  %  whom  his  sol soldiers  diers soldiers  in  they  terror,  and  as  an  excuse  fa  their  .  Commander,  Scritelly/saceiliceB.  The  Bishops  of  Leon  Aril  Astorga,  and  n  great  numbet  of  Ecclesiastics,  distinguished  themselves  by  their  good  conduct  titid  their  apostolic  virtues  the  .  general  pardon  of of%Ted  %Ted of%Ted  by  the  Eropetor  bas  produced  a  great  elect.  The  destruc destruction  tion destruction  of  tist  duties  odious  to  the  people  and  contrary  to  the  pros prosperity  perity prosperity  of  the  State,  and  the  measures  which  leave  the  numerous  elan  of  Monks  no  'longer  any  uncertainty  respecting  their  lot,  produced  a  good  effect.  The  general  animadversion  is  against  the  English.  The  pen pen-sitnts  -sitnts pen-sitnts STYLE=superscript  say,  in  their  language,  tha.t  at  the  approarn  of  the  French  the  English  *tat  away  to  mount  their  wooden  horses  (ships).  NINETEENtiI  BULLETIN  OF  TIIE  ARMY  Oti'  SPAIN.  in  s  DEC.  13.-  , STYLE=superscript  --Ittr:asmititendered  on  the  6th  by  capi capitulation.  tulation. capitulation.  Two  thousand  men  have  been  made  prisoners:  A  con considerable  siderable considerable  quantity  of  artillery  was  found  in  the  place.  Six  ships  of  the  line  Which  were  at  anchor  in  the  harbour,  would  not  carry  away  the  garrison.  The  Emperor  thii  day  reviewed  the  whole  of  the  united  'troops  of  the  Duke  of  Dantsic,  beyond  the  bridge  of  Segovia.  behastiani'iidivlsion  has  marched  for  Talavera  de  la  Reyna.  The  breaking  up  or  the  Spanish  troops  is  observed  oil  every  tide.  the  new  levies  which  were  attempted  to  be  raised,  dis disperse  perse disperse  on  all  sides,  and  return  to  their  homes-.  The  details  which  we  learn  from  the  Spaniards  respecting  the  Central  Junta,  are  all  of  a  nature  .to  place  them  in  the  moit  ridieuloUS  point  of  view.  That  assembly  is  already  become  an  oldect  of  contempt  with  all  Europe.  Its  members,  to  the  bomber  d  86,  have  bestolved  upon  themselves  titles  and  r;h r;h-inons  inons r;h-inons  of  every  sort,  and  an  annual  allowlnct!  of  63  4  (T0  I  ivre4.  Vlorida  Blown  was  a  real  man  of  straw  t  he  is  now  ashamed  of  tho  dishonnfir  he  has  brought  upon  his  old  age.  As  usually  happens  in  sneh  assemblies,  two  or  three  per?ons  domineer  over  Ili)  the  rest;  and  these  tWo  or  three  pCtAOIIB  were  in  the  pay  of  England.  The  opinion  held  by  the  city  of  Madrid  respecting  the  Junta  is  notorious  ;  they  are  as  ty.reb  the  objects  of  the  Crockery  and  derision,  as  they  are  of  the  detestation  of  the  in-  . STYLE=superscript  habitants  of  the  Capital.  Never  was  there  so  fine  a  December.  It  is  like  the  beginning  of  Spring.  The  Emperor  avails  himself  of  the  find  weather  t*  uremia  iu  the  ceuntry  one  league  final  Madrid.  PROCLANII  TION  BY  lION  AP  U.TP.  -  -  -  SPANIAItDS!—YoII  litiVe  beets  Misled  by  pet-41(1161st  men.  The)  have  enkaged  volt  in  a  senseless  struggle,  Mali  oh  have  had  recourFe  ta  arm  , STYLE=superscript  .  t  there  one  amongst  OW;  Who  M  A STYLE=superscript  W&#34;'  II  MO MO'  ' MO'  merit's  reflection  upon  all  that  has  p::ssil,  st'uillti  not  he  con  , STYLE=superscript  weed  01:  ,  t  you  have  been  the  sport  of  the  ets...riial  ens  suits  of  the  Centinent,  strn  take  delight  in  wltne..slng  the  eltusiOn  of  Spanish  and  French  blond  ?  What  possible  result  wotild  attend  eVeti  the  faIICCOS  i,f  soave  tallipaigsts  ?  ettdress  %shr  upon  yoUr  soil,  and  a  terliOtts  enecitainty  respecting  the  fate  of  your  properties  and  lives..  Within  the  spare  of  a  fiew•  tbohtlit;  ton  have  been  delivered  up  to  ell  the  affilettens  of  popular  factions:  The  defeat  or  stint  armies  have  been  the  wctrk  bf  some  rn  %hrs;  1  have.  entered  •  Madrid  :  the  rights  of  war  would  justly  VII*  in  Malang  a  Signal  example,  by  stashing  Away  in  'blond  she  outrages  offered  to  hie  and  to  my  nation'.  Kitt  have  listened  tb  the  dictates  of  Cletnency  only.  Sante  men,  the  authors  of  all  ysitt'r  talamitles,  than  'thine  he  punished.  I  shall  speedily  drive  fruit  the  Peninsula  that  English  army  which  has  beets  sent  to  f.',pain;  not  risr  the  purpdse  nf  assistattee  to  you.,  but  to  inspitt  yon  with  a  false  Canticle:me  and  to  mislead  you.  •  I  had  tleclated  to  ybn  in  i`ny  Rrorldrtntioa  n  tht  2d  df  31)  . STYLE=superscript  he  3  that  I  wished  to  he  your  Regenerator.  Tn  the  tights  which  had  been  ceded  to  roe  by  the  Primes  of  the  last  dVtiASty,  wished  that  t  shrsuld  add  the  right  of  conquest:  that  shall  not  Snake  any  alteration  ih  my  intentions:  lam  even  disposed  to  praise  all  that  May  he  general*  in  your  efforts;  1  ant  is  Ming  admit;  that  your  real  intefests  have  be  eh  Concealed  flrutli  you,  that  the  real  state  of  things  have  been  disguised  frees  tisr.  Spaniards;  Srve  thistiny  is  in  your  own  hands.  Reject  the  Polsotit  which  the  English  have  spread  tiMongst  vOu  I—let  yhtir  Ring  be  assured  of  t  on).  afniction  and  sour  confidence,  and  you  will  be  more  poWer-  Ad  and  more  happy  trial  ever  you  have  been.  All  that  ob obstftteted  stftteted obstftteted  your  prosperity  and  your  grandeur,  I  have  destroyed  the  chains  Which  have  born  down  the  pedals-,  I  have  broken;  a.  free  Constitetien  giies  yowl  a  'limited  and  constitutitinal;  instead  of  an  absolute  Monarchy.  It  depends  Upon  yattrselvell  Whether  this  Constitution  shall  stilt  continue.in  yotte  land.  But  should  all  my  efforts  proVe  ihtltless;  and  shntild  yod  not  merit  , STYLE=superscript  lily  eimfidence,  nothing  wilt  remain  for  me  bat  to  treat  you  - STYLE=superscript  as  contitt*red  provinces;  and  to  place  my  brothbli  upon  another  thtntiev  1,  Shall  then  place  the  Crown  upon  ray  otttl  head;  nod  cause  it  to  be  respected  by  the  guilty  for  Grid  has  given  tat*  power  and  inelinatitin  to  surmount  all  dhstaclest  Given  at  our  Itnpetial  Camp  at  Madrid,  Dm  1,  ISO&amp;  (Signed)  ArAilOr.zort.  By  the  taiperors  Minister  Sutttlitfy  or  State,  (Signed)  H.  B.  Al  dielfs  Weir  ftre!seVerat  Deeretsiand  Sonic  Intercepted  correspotidOtietl  - STYLE=superscript  .  By  on  of  these  Decrees  a  general  pardon  is  granted  to  an  Spaniards;  who  shall  be  allep.  , STYLE=superscript  :innt  to  lio!iaparte,  with  tlit  lowing  exceptions;  and  the  Members  tif  the  Council  of  tiastile  are  branded  as  cowards;  and  onworthy  of  being  indgistrates  df  a  brave  nation.  The  following  persons  arc  proscribed  a§  aVoweti  enemies  to  France  and  Spuinb  vim;  'Mr  Duke  d'lnfantitda  Duke  de  Medina  Cell  Makinis  de  Santa  Cruz  Count  d'Altlinira  Pierre  Cevallos,  late  Midister  •  of  States  By  another  Decree  the  MOM  of  Convents  Is  reduced  to  one-II  abclishedl  Duke  at  iiijav  Duke  de  Ussdnri  Connt  de  Fehan  NurfeS  Prince  of  Cuttelfrtußcd  13i,.hnp  of  Santander.  ;lon  i!1  abolished  th'e  otillttef  tird;  and  feudal  riights  alrd  irnoYl  TILE  SPANISII  PAMIS%  Coatrti,  hitik  With  Much  atilciety  to  the  next  accounts  from  the  army:  es  from  its  approaching  vkinity  to  the  enemy.  a  battle  twi  sOon  be  expected  to  take  place:  The  whole  force  wader  s!r  J.  'Moore  consists  of  46;010  Men  :  10,000  are  Spaniards  detached  front  the  army  of  the  Mnrquis  de  la  itomamt;  at  least  such  is  the  report  of  the  day.  Our  troops  are  rrpresented  as  being  in  the  highest  spirits;  and  desirous  of  m  ee  t.;  ing  the  enemy,  The  l'th  dragoon:  has  had  mnch  skirmishing  with  the  Frenol  cavalry;  and  in  one  atfair  defeated  tit  body  of  1 STYLE=superscript  :100,  of  which  they  made  300  prisoners:  Our  loss  wAs  trilling;  we  absolutely  know  nothing  positive  fer.pectittg  lkindrid,  or  d  the  enemy's  force  in  that  iluarter:  Various  letters  announce  that  the  rrench  were  In  piossession  of  EL  Retie°,  and  had  placed  guards  in  dillertnt  parts  of  tote  eity;  bat  that  coin  toot  cOMpet  the  thhabitabts  to  give  Lip  their  P3_TB00018 .  P3_TB00019 JAN.  A.  Tilt  NATIONAL  lIEGIRTBIL  10  1  1  ~..h._  -  ..........  --- STYLE=superscript  ....1.1.1.0.0  1 STYLE=superscript  1  The  teensy's  &amp;tally  beaten  at  Tudela  s  Catalavnd,  abandon-  PROCIANIATION  BY  lION  AP  U.T.S.  led  by  its  Generals,  and  a  great  number  of  soldiers'  was  reduced  soldiers,  to  6000  men.  SPA  NIA  itlIS  !---Yon  have  Nees  misted  by  , STYLE=superscript  pertulitiht  men.  Oh  the  Bth,  at  tbidaight,  the  Duke  of  Istta  attackOd,  at  Santa  The)  have  enkaged  sou  in  a  senseless  struggle,  nhtl  3oh  have  had  Ne'  •  •  ...rut,  a  etttps  1001  covered  the  dight  of  the  enemy  '  s  army.  recnune  la  arm  , STYLE=superscript  .  i  - STYLE=superscript  !%  there  one  amongSt  vbil;  Who  M  A STYLE=superscript  W&#34;'  a  ino-  that  corp.s  Was  closely  pursued,  and  lit  thousand  ptisoners  taken.  merit's  reflection  upon  all  that  has  p::svid,  Woiihi  not  be  con  , STYLE=superscript  It  wiohod  to  throw  itssif  into  Andalusia  by  Madriclego.  It  ap-  vieced  th:,t  von  have  been  the  sport  of'  the  ets..ismal  ens  lilies  of  the  pears  to  have  been  f.  reed  to  dis  erne  hi  ttit  mooseains  of  Cuenca.  I  COntinent,  lyres  take  delight  in  w  itnessing,  the  ettesien  of  Spanish  .  .  and  French  blosid  ?  What  possihle  result  wo(dd  attend  eVeti  the  ..  -&amp;-Namo-d-  -falleretS  if(  some  talliaalgsts  ?  An  eitfire,.  %%hr  opus  your  soil,  and  EICIIITtEXTIT  BULLETIN  Ot  lift  Patmlb  tit  I  a  tedious  cnceitainty  relfeCting  the  fate  of  your  propertleS  and  SPAIN:  lives:  Within  the  space  of  a  rev.  honths  ;  yott  have  beet'  delivered  up  to  eh  the  afilletiOns  of  popular  factions:  The  dereat  or  your  i  MADAM,  etc.  Central  Stinta  Of  Spaln  had  hut  amass  h  a  ve  heel  the  writic  bf  some  at‘theS;  /  have  emcee('  i  little  power  t  the  greater  part  of  the  provinces  paid  It  little  i  Madrid:  the  rights  of  war  Would  juttlfy  to*  in  Making  a  Siena  1.  submission.,  and  all  ortheat  'deprived  it  of  the  administrarinn  of  b  example,  by  stashing  Away  in  'blocd  she  outrages  oltered  to  tne  the  fivanceu  (t  was  under  the  Influence  of  the  lowest  t'inss  of  j  an  d  t  o  my  nati  o  ns  bet  (have  listened  m  the  dictates  of  chq  - STYLE=superscript  neticy  the  people  ttt  tOts  gtiverfted  by  the  minority.  Florida  I%!anca  only.  game  men,  the  authors  of  all  saiti'r  talamities,  shall  Rhine  was  withoul  any  tied%  The  Junta  was  under  the  Naitroul  of  Ib  e  ptinished.  I  shall  vl  t  feedily  drive  front  the  Peninsula  that  two  men,  the  one  named  Lorento  Catvo,  a  grocer  Of  Sailtgallsa,  English  army  which  has  beets  sent  to  !Spain;  not  rid'  the  purpdse  *who  had  In  a  few  months  obtained  the  title  of  Eater/sleet.  tie  of  assists:ere  to  vot,  but  to  inspitt  yon  with  a  falstt  entstidence  Is  one  of  those  violent  Men  who  appear  in  revolution—his  ho-  f  and  th  mislead  you.  •  nesty  Was  more  than  suspected,  The  tatter  Is  called  Tilly;  tor-  I  had  declared  to  sent  In  eny  RteseitUnntinti  of  the  tti  Of  Jane;  merly  condemned  to  the  gallies  Las  a  thief;  the  younger  brother  •  that  I  wished  to  he  our  Regenerator.  To  the  tights  which  hod  of  a  man  of  the  name  of  Gasman,  who  formerly  played  a  pert  .  been  ceth'd  to  Mr  by  the  Princes  of  the  last  dynasty,  Nou  wished  limier  rktsivelierre  during  the  reign  rpr  Terror,  As  soon  as  ans  '  that  I  should  add  the  eight  of  conquest,  that  shall  not  Make  sof  the  Members  of  the  Junta  opposed  the  violent  measures  that  any  alteration  io  my  ititentioire  lam  even  di  it  s  r  o•ed  th  praise  were  proposte,  these  two  wretches  called  out  Treasen  s  and  ins-  all  that  may  he  geneses*  in  you  efforts;  1  ant  e  Ilitrigiti  admits  tnediately  a  teob  Was  dallected  under  the  windows  of  Aranjece.  that  your  real  Interests  have  been  concealed  Nati  you,  that  the  The  extravagance  and  wickedness  of  these  dangerous  men  Ittnni-  real  state  of  things  have  been  disguised  from  vets,  51paniards;  Jested  itself  upon  ail  occasions.  As  sena  as  they  learnt  that  the  .  yAer  destiny  is  in  your  own  heads.  Reject  the  Poisons  which  that  Emperor  was  at  Burgos,  and  he  would  soon  be  at  Madrid,  they  English  have  spread  antongst  yhu  :—let  yotir  Xing  be  asstiSed  of  published  a  declaration  of  war  against  France,  replete  with  in-  voter  ntnietion  and  Tour  confidence,  and  you  will  be  More  poWers  edits  and  folly;  Ad  and  more  hh;lpv  time  ever  you  have  been.  All  that  ob-  On  the  11th,  *hell  the  netterm  of  oivismh  Lassttlie,  Who  Was  stftteted  your  prosperity  and  N'onr  grandeur,  I  hate  destroyed  t  pursuing  the  enemy,  arrived  at  Talavera  tie  Reyna,  where  the  the  eitain  ., STYLE=superscript  4  *ltich  Iraire  born  down  the  pedple,  I  have  brOkeni'm  English  had  passed  triumphantly  ten  days  before,  saying  they  free  Constitetien  giies  yowl  a  limited  and  constitutitinal;  instead  Were  going  to  relieve  the  enpital,  a  frightful  spectacle  met  the  ,  of  an  absolute  Monarchy.  It  depends  Upon  yourselveS  Whether  titres  of  the  French.  A  hotly  cloathed  in  the  uniform  of  a  Spa-  this  Comtittit  lon  shall  still  ennti  nue  . STYLE=superscript  in  yonr  land.  Wish  General  was  suspended  from  a  gallows,  'And  pierced  With  a  But  should  all  my  efforts  prove  ihtitiesss  and  slititild  yod  not  thousand  bullets.  It  was  Gen.  Benito  San  ;can  ;  whom  his  sot-  merit  my  confidence,  nothing  will  remain  for  me  but  to  treat  you  Idlers  in  there  terror,  and  as  an  excuse  fa  their  .  Commander,  ,  as  contitt*red  provinces;  and  to  place  my  brotMt  upset  another'  Scruelly/saerillteB.  Illse  Bishops  o  f  Leon  Awl  Astorga,  and  n  thhntiel  I  'shall  then  place  the  Crown  upon  my  owil  head;  nod  great  numbet  tit  Ecclesiastics,  disOnguisbed  themselves  by  their  cause  it  to  be  respected  by  the  guilty;  for  Grid  has  given  sne  'ood  conduct  find  their  apostolic  virtues;  the  .  general  pardon  of-  power  rind  inelination  to  surmount  all  ditstaclest  Given  at  our  ered  by  the  Ernpetor  bas  produced  a  great  edect.  The  destruc-  IMpetial  Camp  at  Madrid,  Dec,  7,  1808;  Lion  of  the  duties  odious  to  the  people  and  contrary  to  the  pros-  (Signed)  /V  4  Ai  Luta  . STYLE=superscript  .  Verity  of  the  State;  'and  the  measures  which  leave  the  numerous  By  the  Emperors  hlinistet  Setttlitry  of  State,  class  of  Monks  no  longer  any  uncertadaty  respecting  their  lot,  (Signed)  H.  B.  Al  daith  produced  a  good  effect.  .  .  —.......--  The  general  animadversion  is  against  the  English.  The  pea-  their  are  several  Pecrettsiand  some  intercepted  correspotidetieS.  - STYLE=superscript  starts  say,  in  their  language,  that  at  the  approach  of  the  French  By  one  of  these  Decrees  a  general  pardon  is  granted  to  all  the  English  rcen't  away  to  mount  their  wooden  horses  (ships).  Spaniards;  who  shall  be  alles  , STYLE=superscript  :iant  to  Ilieetparte,  with  tli:e  r  o  ts  —moassia.  lowitsg  exceptions  ;  and  the  Members  of  the  Council  of  Uastild  NINETEENtII  BULLETIN  OF  TILE  ARMY  OF  are  branded  as  cowards;  and  onwortity  of  being  thstglstrates  Of  a  brave  nation.  The  following  persons  are  proscribed  aS  uVoweti  SPAIN;  enemies  to  France  and  Spain;  vie,  MADRID,  n  EC.  13.-.-Ittr:assurrenderesi  on  the  6th  by  capi-  The  Duke  d'lnfantaria  Duke  de  II  Ilar  satiation.  Two  thousand  men  have  been  made  prisoners.  A  con-  Duke  de  hledina  Ceti  Duke  de  ()wirl  sidsreble  quantity  of  artillery  was  found  in  the  place.  Six  Marquis  de  Santa  Cruz  Count  de  Ferniin  Nunes  Yinslish  ships  of  the  line  Which  were  at  anchor  in  the  harbour,  Count  d'Altinlirtt  Prince  of  Cettelfraecd  would  not  carry  away  the  garrison.  .  Pierre  Cevallos,  late  hlidister  Bishop  of  Santander.  The  Emperot  thii  day  reviewed  the  whole  of  the  united  •  or  Stater  'troops  of  the  Duke  of  Dantaic,  beyond  the  bridge  of  Segovia.  B  y  ,  another  Decree  the  Inquisition  is  abolished  ;  the  nifilltief  behastiani's  division  has  marched  for  Talavera  de  la  Reyna.  of  Convents  is  reduced  to  one-third;  .  and  feudal  rights  aid  The  hreakieg  up  or  the  Spanish  troops  is  observed  out  every  abclisheds  side.  the  new  levies  which  were  attempted  to  be  raised,  dis-  got  ...-  s  s  '  .....5...1  parse  on  alt  sides,  and  return  to  their  homes.  eats  tart'  irnoYl  THE  SPANISH  Pei  r.e.  'Lab  The  details  which  we  learn  from  the  Spaniards  respecting  the  Central  Junta,  junta,  are  all  of  a  nature.to  place  them  in  the  moist  ridieutoas  point  of  view.  That  assembly  is  already  become  an  Colttrltii,  Decs.  9.9.--s  Vie  hitik  iviiit  Much  ntticiely  to  the  oldect  of  contempt  with  all  Europe.  Its  members;  to  time  next  accounts  from  the  aenty:  us  from  Its  approaching  vicinity  bomber  or  go,  have  bestowed  u  po  n  themselves  titles  and  rib-  to  the  enemy.  a  battle  teas  seen  he  expected  to  take  place:  Thd  loons  of  every  sort,  and  au  annual  allowance  of  63,C00  I  ivres.  whole  force  teeter  S!r  J.  Moore  consists  of  46;010  men  :  10,000  riorida  Bialica  was  a  real  man  of  straw  t  he  is  now  ashamed  of  are  Spaniards  detached  front  the-  ariny  of  the  Marques  de  la  the  dislmonotir  he  has  brought  upon  his  old  age.  As  usually  domaett;  at  least  such  is  the  report  of  the  day.  Our  troops  are  happens  in  such  assemblies,  two  or  three  persons  domineer  over  •  represented  as  being  in  the  highest  spirits;  and  dtircitie  of  meet:,  till  the  rest,  and  these  tWo  or  three  persons  were  in  the  pay  of  ing  the  enemy;  The  l'th  dragoons  has  had  much  skitmishln  England.  The  opinion  held  by  the  city  of  Madrid  respecting  with  the  F  r STYLE=superscript  e  nSh STYLE=superscript  cavalr STYLE=superscript  y;  and STYLE=superscript  in STYLE=superscript  otie  of  hir  defeated  a  body  of  .  the  Junta  is  notorious;  they  are  as  tpsteh  the  objects  of  the  tioo,  of  which  they  made  3CO  prisoners.  Blocker)  , STYLE=superscript  and  derision,  as  they  are  of  the  detestation  of  the  in  Our  loss  was  trilling;  a  e  absolutely  know  nothing  positive  habitants  of  the  Capital.  respecting  Madrid,  or  d  the  enemy's  force  in  that  quarter:  Never  was  there  so  fine  a  December.  It  is  like  the  beginning  Various  letters  atmounce  that  the  french  were  In  pisssession  of  of  Spring.  The  Emperor  avails  himself  of  the  find  weather  t  4  'EI  Retio,  and  had  placed  guards  in  dillerent  parts  of  ete  laity;  omits  iu  the  country  Out  league  ftton  Madrids  '  but  that  ts::.!  could  not  edinpel  the  ihhabitabts  to  give  tip  shell'  .  VIE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  ge..erous  as  to  withhold  from  merit  the  praises  to  a  It  Is  enti  led.  To  this  we  will  nnl,  reply,  that  if  our  p  ,es  the  few  errors  which  we  think  he  has  committed;  in  order  to  i  relte  it  other  authots  from  rende.--  •  ing  themseti  es  obnoxious  io  the  same  censure,  our  hands  on  Thursday  flight  granted  him  their  warm  support.  if  as  the  Epilogue  hints  it,  this  comedy  be  •  the  jirgt  which  the  author  wrote,  we  give  liiin  credit  for  very  promis:n  talents  ;  but  if  it  be  Hie  production  of  a  veteran  writer  we  would  rather  can  it  it  retreat  from,  than  ltrh  advance  toWards  perfection.  The  ptologue,  which  was  0%0416111y  well  delivered  b)  Mr.  Mathews,  told  us  something  about  our  having  fre frequently  quently frequently  met.  with  old  tharailfes  in  new  comedies;  and  we  therefore  expected  to  banquet  at  last  on  novelty;  a  dish  which  has  not  for  many  years  gratified  the  public  appetite.  We  were,  however,  disappointed.  We  were  introduced  to  imany  characters  it  is  true,  but  strongly  suspected,  and,  in indeed,  deed, indeed,  were  convinced  that  we  had  had  some  m  o STYLE=superscript  limpses  of  them  before  on  the  stage;  except,  perhaps,  of  that  which  Johnstone  admirably  represented—an  honest  attorney,  who  assumes  the  appearance  of  a  rascal.  But  this  is  not,  we  much  fear,  a  copy  from  nature,  it  is  a  stretch  of  the  imagination  rather  than  the  result  of  observation.  It  'hews  men  as  they  ought  to  be  (dropping  the  appearance  of  rascality)  and  not,  unfortunately  as  they  ate.  There  is,  perhaps,  some  novelty  too,  in  giving  the  attorney  a  think thinktnr,  tnr, thinktnr,  clerk  ;  but  as  notwithstanding  his  reflecting  powers  and  disposition,  he  still  remains  a  faithful  echo  to  his  mas masters  ters masters  sentiments  and  a  slave  to  his  will,  even  when  it  ap appears  pears appears  evil,  nature  may  be  said  to  have  been  followed  more  closely  than  in  the  delineation  of  the  character  of  the  ho honest  nest honest  Hibernian  Cornelius  O'Detlimus.  The  plot  is  iuteresting,  but  contains  many  incidents  ga gathered  thered gathered  from  ancient  and  modern  plays.  They  arc,  however,  so  artfully  disposed  as  to  wear  the  appearance  of  novelty,  although  it  cannot  boast  its  reality.  They  arc  like  views  of  spots  well  known  to  us,  and  which  though  par partially  tially partially  disguised  by  the  introduction  of  a  tree,  or  the  omis omission  sion omission  of  some  of  their  less  important  features,  cannot  fail  to.  l  strike  oar  recollection,  whenever  we  bestow  an  observing  glance  upon  them.  The  explanation  of  the  may  be  found  in  many  novels,  yet  it  is  not  too  easily  anti anticipated;  cipated; anticipated;  as  our  expectation  of  novelty  hinders  us  from  m STYLE=superscript  hinking  our  surmises  can  be  right.  A  good  natured,  and,  at  times,  passionate  husband,  and  a  nervous,  but  artful  wife,  a  strict  economist.  and  a  household  tyrant,  form,  not  the  first  characters  of  the  comedy,  but  those  to  which  it  owes  its  name.  We  will  now  unfold  some  of  the  chief  incidents  of  the  piece.  In  it  we  find  a  young  and  innocent  girl,  not  unlike  Ms 'Ms.?'  in  John  Bull,  seduced  by  a  rich  lover,  who,  however,  marries  her  secretly,  with  the  intention  of  deceiving  her  by  .employing  a  false  priest  and  treacherous  witnesses  :  but  whose  designs  are  frustrated,  by  the  honesty  of  his  attor attor..ney,  ..ney, attor..ney,  who  provides  a  real  priest.  We  see  the  same  titled  -laver  pay  his  addresses  to  Ellen,  a  baronet's  daughter,  a  'tick  heiress  of  twelve  thousand  a  year,  whose  affections  •are  placed  on  his  cousin,  a  sailor,  who  through  love  for for-sakes  -sakes for-sakes  his  ship  to  visit  his  niistress.  On  hearing  of  ber  ap approaxhing  proaxhing approaxhing  marriage  with  Lord  Austincourt,  he  'steals  into  her  house  to  reproach  her  for  her  unfaithfulness.  '  —Here,  a  quarrel  similar  to  that  of  Donna  nolante,  and  in  The  ensues  between  the  jealous  irri irri.tated  .tated irri.tated  lover,  and  his  wrongly  suspected  mistress,  who  re re•tiresiiia  •tiresiiia re•tiresiiia  anger.  In  asi.bsequent  meeting  she  conceals  bim  in  her  music  room  on  hearing  her  fathers  voice,  and  the  wise  parent  !ravine  learnt  that  the  sailor  was  lurking  near  his  mansion  to  see  her,  locks  her  up  unconsciously  with  him  and  her  maid.  His  friend,  Mr.  Faulkener,  long  thought  dead  but  who  had  lived  for  many  years  disguised  in  the  neigh neigh'bourbood  'bourbood neigh'bourbood  with  an  only  /laughter,  now  calls  upon  him,  ad advises  vises advises  him  not  to  marry  his  Ellen  to  Lord  Aatincoirt,  and  is  on  the  point  of  retiring,  when  the  Baronet,  desirous  to  present  him  to  his  child,  unlocks  the  door,  and  finds  her  in.,  sotripaoy  Clarks.  dustincourt,  the  rolookted  sailor.  JAN:  —A  scene  of  confusion,  and  conjugal  itri&amp;  ensiles  between  the  Baronet  and  his  lady,  who  accuses  him  of  having  wile  liegly  introduced  the  young  adventures'  into  the  hots&amp;  From  thence  we  are  transported  to  the  Attorney's  where  we  learn  that  Charles  austineoures  father  being  left  guardian  to  fiord  Auslinconri,  had  ventured  14,000/i  of  hia  money  in  a  commercial  concern  which  had  failed,  Lord  .4.  who  wished  to  bribe  his  victiin,  and  her  father  into  silence,  with  that  sum,  requests  its  reimbursement,  as  it  had  been  expended  without  his  knowledge.  His  guardian  implbres  his  mercy,  but  his  suit  is  rejected  with  scorn,  which  awakens  the  sluraberiag  powers  of  conscience,  and  he  then  declares  before  .Fanlkener,  who  had  in  vain  required  he  should  wed  his  seduced  daughter,  Ellen  and  her  father,  her  mother-in-law,  and  the  Attorney,  that  having  a  son  of  the  same  age  as  Lord  auslineuort  when  he  became  his  ward,  he  had  yierded  to  the  impulse  of  ambition,  and  IlUbstituteid  his  owu  son  instead  of  the  right  heir,  who  till  then  had  ap appeared  peared appeared  under  the  name  of  (harks  Auslincourt.  'Cornelitit  O'bedinuss  then  informs  the  company  that  the  person  who  had  married  the  no  longer  Lord  A.  and  Faulleener  was  a  real  Priest,  acknowledges  himself  fur  a  witness,  as  well  as  his  clerk,  and  leads  her  in  triumphant  to  the  arms  of  her  husband,  who  suddenly  repents,  and  takes  her  to  his  ho.  som.  The  real  Lord  .lustincourt,  of  course,  obtains  the  hand  of  his  Ellen,  without  any  further  difficulty,  and  thsi  piece  closes.  •  The  dialogue  of  this  comedy  is  highly  commendable  fa  its  purity  both  of  meaning  and  style.  It  does  not  sparkle  with  ban  mots;  it  is  not  grossly  familiar;  it  is  easy  and  elegant,  frequently  energetic,  and  enriched  with  just  hnlt  pleasing  imagery.  Nor  is  it  totally  devoid  of  wit,  though  it  is  completely  free  from  the  affectation  of  it.  The  chit•  racters,  though  not  new,  are  well  delineated,  and  hatipili  contrasted.  The  plot  is  well  conducted,  though  the  two  first  acts  are  rather  laorptid  ;  and  its  greatest  defect  is  its  . STYLE=superscript  length.  Some  of  the  situations  are  well  imag  ined,  many  scenes  highly  comic,  and  some  th  o  ugh  path  etic,  not  too  much  so  for  a  comedy.  Encouraged  by  redoubled  peals  of  epplause,  ail  the  Performers  displayed  the  wh  o  l  e  ext  en  t  of  - STYLE=superscript  their  abilitlea.  Mrs.  Jordan,  in  the  part  of  Ellen,  looked'better  thani  she  has  done  for  many  years;  her  vivacity  was  as  natural  and  as  graceful  'as  ever.  Mrs.  H.  Siddons,  In  the  garb  of  deceived'  innocence,  united  beauty,  modesty  and  sim.  plicity,  with  an  energy  and  justness  of  action  which  .  made  her  performance  truly  delightful.  Dowton  and  Mrs.  Harlowe,  as  man  and  wife,  were  excellent.—  Yet  we  thought  once  or  twice  we  perceived  Dowtoei  &amp;attires  courting  the  approbation  of  the  galleries.  This  happened  in  the  scene  in  which  he  attempts  to  master  his  wife,  and  as  it  is  the  fr.rst  symptom  of  earicatutimanid  which  we  have  ever  observed  in  him,  we  hasten  to  inform  him  of  his  danger,  in  order  that  he  may  guard  pgainst  its  farther  advance.  Elliston  gave  d  u  e  s  pi  r  it  t  o  the  cha  , STYLE=superscript  racter  of  an  open-hearted  but  passionate  sailor.  Johnstone,  in  Corodius  O  a STYLE=superscript  Dedintus,  came  up  to  himself  in  Dennis  Brulgruderry.  Mathews,  as  the  pondering  clerk,  raised  his  part  in  the  comedy  to  a  higher  station  than  it  else  would  have  occupied;  and  Messrs.  Wroughton,  Holland,  and  Powell,  in  Faulkener,  Lord  Auithecourt,  and  his  guardian,  attained  unusual  excellence.  The  epilogue  entertained  us  with  the  keetmesq,  not  the  length  of  an  author's  ear.  It  contained  nothing  re remarkable,  markable, remarkable,  and  the  plaudits  which  it  obtained,  were  de.  served  by  Mr+.  Jordan  who  spoke  it.  Man  and  Wife  was  announced  for  a  second  representa..  tiou  amidst  a  thunder  of  applause,  and  shouts  of  bravo  I  times  vituriz.  Last  night  the  season  of  Operas  commenced.  The  thett-  Ire  has  been  refitted  with  great  carp  ;  the  bores  new newpapered  papered newpapered  and  painted,  and  the  benchests  well  as  chairs  re•  newed.  A  new  Comic  Opera,  entitled,  La  Capriecksa  Peitite  t  .,  Fioravanti,  introduced  the  new  Prima  Buffo.,  Signori  P14_TB00010 •  .  .  happened  in  th  e  scene  i  n  w  hich  he  attempts  to  matter  his  In  it  we  find  a  young  and  innocent  girl,  not  unlike  M  a  -  ,  .ty  in  John  Bull,  seduced  by  a  rich  lover,  who,  however,  wife,  and  as  it  is  the  bit  symptom  of  coricatutimania  h  marries  her  secretly,  with  the  intention  of  deceiving  her  by  which  we  have  ever  ob  s  erved  in  im,  we  hasten  to  inform  him  of  his  danger,  i  n  or  d  e  r  th  a  t  h  e  may  guard  gainst  .employing  a  false  priest  and  treacherous  witnesses  :  but  whose  designs  are  frustrated,  by  the  h  o  nesty  o  f  his  att  o  r-  its  farther  advance.  Elliston  gave  due  spirit  tothe  cha,  ney,  who  provides  a  real  priest.  We  see  the  same  titled  '  racter  of  an  open-hearted  but  pa  ss  i  o  n  a  t  e  sai  l  or  .  J  o  h  ns  t  one  ,  in  Coroelius  O'Dedimus,  carn  e  u  p  t  o  hi  mse  lf  i  n  D  ennis  lever  pay  his  addresses  to  Ellen,  a  baronet's  daughter,  a  Brulgruderry.  Mathews,  as  the  ponde  r  ing  c  l  er  k,  ra  i  se  d  'tic*  heiress  of  twelve  thousand  '  a  year,  whose  affections  •are  placed  on  his  cousin,  a  sailor,  who  through  love  for-  his  part  in  the  comedy  to  a  higher  station  than  it  else  would  have  occupied;  and  Messrs.  Wrou  g  ht  on  ,  H  o  ll  an  d,  an  d  -sakes  his  ship  to  visit  his  mistress.  On  hearing  of  her  ap-  Powell,  in  Faulkener,  Lardiitaltneourt,  and  his  guardian,  proaxhing  marriage  with  Lord  Austineourt,  he  'steals  Into  her  house  to  reproach  her  for  her  unfaithfulness.  attained  unusual  excellence.  The  epilogue  entertained  us  with  th  e  k  e  e  t  m  essi  net  t  h  e  —Here,  a  quarrel  similar  to  that  of  Donna  rialanle,  and  li  , STYLE=superscript  li.r.  in  The  ensues  between  the  jealous  irri-  length  of  an  auth  o  r'  s  e  ar  .  It  con  t  a  i  ne  d  not  hi  ng  re-  tam!  lover,  and  his  wrongly  suspected  mistress,  who  re-  markahle,  and  the  pla  u  dit  s  w  hi  c  h  it  o  bt  a  i  ne  d,  werd  d  e  .  •tires,in  anger.  In  aimbsequent  meeting  she  conceals  him  in  served  by  Mr+.  Jordan  who  spoke  it.  her  music  room  on  hearing  her  fathers  voice,  and  the  wise  Man  and  /rife  wa  s  anno  u  n  ce  d  f  or  a  secon  d  representa  .  lion  amidst  a  thunder  o  f  appla  use  ,  an  d  s  h  outs  o  f  b  ravo  I  parent  !ravine  learnt  that  the  sailor  was  lurking  near  his  scansion  to  see  her,  locks  her  up  unconsciously  with  him  and  —.........  her  maid.  His  friend,  Mr.  Faulkener,  long  thought  dead  tlNc.'s  rii  Atm:.  but  who  had  lived  for  many  years  disguised  in  the  neigh-  Last  night  the  season  of  Operas  commenced.  The  theg-  - STYLE=superscript  bourbooll  with  an  only  - STYLE=superscript  daughter,  now  calls  upon  him,  ad-  tre  has  been  refitted  with  great  carp  ;  the  bores  ne  w  -  vises  him  not  to  marry  his  Ellen  to  Lord  Aginconrt,  and  papered  and  p  a  i  n  t  e  d,  an  d  th  e  benchests  well  as  chairs  re•  is  on  the  point  of  retiring,  when  the  Baronet,  desirous  to  newed.  present  him  to  his  child,  u  nlocks  th  e  d  oor  ,  a  n  d  finds  her  in  ,  A  new  Comic  Opera,  entitled,  La  Caprie  e  f  os  e  Postite  t  .,  lowan,  !A  Itl  Clarks  duesinceasri  t  the  roduuhted  sailor.  bx  Irioravanti,  introduced  the  new  Prima  Buffe  t  Signori"
