text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  MISTRESS  CLARKE.  IT  is  not  very  many  years  since  every  body  talked  of  Mistress  Rudd.  Within  these  few  years  every  body  was  talking  of  Mis Mistress  tress Mistress  Phippoe.  Every  body  is  now  talking  of  Mistress  Clarke.  'Tis  the  nine-days'  wonder  !  Every  body  is  therefore  wondering  what  will  be  the  end  of  the  wonder.  Has  she  been  promised  a  pension  from  Bonaparte  whispered  one  of  your  significant  politicians,  shrugging  his  shoulders;  and  lamenting  how  much  her  protracted  examination  must  interfere  with  the  interests  of  the  country,  at  this  mo momentous  mentous momentous  crisis.  The  thought  had  never  struck  me  till  no  w.  —  'T  was  full  of  cogitation.  Why,  let  me  said  I,  there  may  be  something  in  that  Aye,  they  begin  again  to  talk  of  Jacobin  Conspiracies  ;  and,  who  knows—who  knows—who  knows  (thought  1)  what  that  child  and  Champion  of  Jacobin Jacobinism,  ism, Jacobinism,  as  the  late  William  Pitt  called  the  present  Emperor  Na Napoleon,  poleon, Napoleon,  who  knows  (thought  1)  what  pranks  this  universal  ili ilitriguant  triguant ilitriguant  may  now  be  playing  with  us  ?—lie  knows  the  political,  as  well  as  the  physical,  utility  of  the  sex.  Yes  ;  and  he  knows  that  Since  Adam,  by  his  facil  consort  Eve,  Lost  Bonaparte  knows,  I  say,  that  woman  is  still  the  instrument  of  wo—to—man!  Think  of  Mrs  Eve  and  Mrs.  Potipher,  and  Mrs.  Jezebel,  and  Mrs.  Dalila,  of  and,  sequently,  of  Mrs.  Helen,  and  Mrs.  Cleopatra,  and  Mrs.  Herod,  and  !  I  say  nothing  of  later  times.  Is  not  mischief  the  natural  element  of  woman?—Like  her  first  seducer,  she  may  indeed  assume  the  appearance  of  an  angel  of  light,  but  'tis  to  beguile  more  surely  !  Men,  however,  still  call  her  an  adored  without  remembering,  as  Mr.  Gar Garrow  row Garrow  wisely  observed,  that  she  is  also  a  `•  fallen  When  Mr.  Secretary  Canning  is  ridiculing  opinions  because,  as  the  newspapers  state  him  to  have  said,  they  were  nursed  in  does  he  not  recollect  that  the  effusions  of  solitude  have  produced  the  most  astonishing  revolutions  in  society  ?  Has  he  forgotten  the  Prop;:ets  of  the  Jewish  Church  and  the  Monks  of  the  Romisl;  Church?  Knows  he  nothing  of  an  Alex Alexander,  ander, Alexander,  a  Caesar,  a  Cato,  a  Brutus,  a  Demosthenes,  a  Cicero  ?  Has  he  ohliteratedfrom  his  mind  the  History  of  Mahomet,  the  Reformation  of  the  Christian  Religion,  the  Lncyclopedists  of  . STYLE=superscript  111odern  s  France,  the  writings  of  Burke,  or  Thomas  Paine's  Rights  of  Alan?  Lastly,  indeed,  is  Secretary  Canning  still  un unacquainted  acquainted unacquainted  w  ith  the  formation  of  the  character  of  that  Napoleon  Bonaparte  against  whose  progress  the  utmost  efforts  of  his  own  enius,  and  that  of  his  country,  are  at  this  moment  exerted?—  '&#34;  C'est  orditiairement  dans  k  calme  de  says  the  au author  thor author  of  Memorial  de  la  Vie  de  Bonaparte,'  commenting  od  the  temper  of  his  hero,  guc  se  foment  •  les  grandes  Laugh  as  we  may  at  such  solitary  characters,  we  shall  find,  perhaps  too  seriously,  that,  as  Waller  said  of  Oliver  Cromwell,  The  world  from  India  to  the  frozen  North,  is  deeply  .  Cotwern'd  in  what  their  solitude  brings  forth  !  Himself  poetically  gifted,  it  cannot  have  escaped  Mr.  Can Canthat  that Canthat  Miltom,,  delineating  one  of  the  *noblest  beings  with  which  his  muse  was  conversant,  describes  even  the  SON  OF  •  GOD  As  saying  •  When  I  was  yet  a  child,  no  childish  plhy  To  me  Waii  ;  all  my  mind  was  set  Serious  to  learn  and  know,  and  thence  to  do  What  might  he  public  good  :  myself  I  thought  Born  to  that  end  127  Our  Dashing  Cyprians  express  the  greatest  astonishment,  at  finding  one  of  the  charges  preferred  against  lifts.  Clarke.  It  is  perfectly  understood,  they  say,  that  with  them  protection  has  its  price  and  that  Cupid,  in  the  mo modern  dern modern  sense,  is  synonymous  with  Gold!  If,  however,  it  should  be  decided  on  the  contrary,  relative  they  declare,  would  be  no  longer  objects  of  their  ambition.  If  you  design  to  regains  a  friend  and  conciliate  an  enemy,  you  have  only  to  reproach  the  first  and  insult  the  last  !  Such  at  least,  appears,  to  be  one  of  the  discoveries  in  Modern  Diplomacy.  —  Neither  Alexander  or  Napoleon,  it  should  be  remarked,  can  be  brought  to  comprehend  this  All's  Well  that  Ends  ►  If  the  House  of  Commons  should  determine  to  go  to  school  again,  Mr.  Fuller,  it  is  said,  is  to  be  appointed  the  Doctor  Busby  of  our  Senatorial  Seminary  !  Ile  wishes  to  have  all  the  poor  well  whipped  Although  Sir  Arthur  Paget  married  Lady  Borringdon  al almost  most almost  the  instant  Lord  Borringdon's  Divorce  Bill  obtained  the  Royal  Assent,  still,  it  is  understood,  he  had  looked  before  he  leaped  !  Since  the  investigation  of  the  state  of  the  nation  does  not  pre preclude  clude preclude  every  possible  attention  to  tl.e  state  (f  the  stomach,  our  Political  Parties  have  already  commenced  their  operations  !  Nothing  can  be  settled  without  speeches,  and  eat eating  ing eating  is  found  to  be  highly  conducive  to  speaking.  Wonderful  is  the  connection  between  gluttony  and  oratory.  Mrs.  Clarke  has  shewn  the  value  she  feels  for  royalty  in  hav having  ing having  sold,  at  the  sale  of  her  effects  in  Gloucester-Place,  a  Mi Miniature  niature Miniature  of  the  Queen,  set  round  with  diamonds  !!  So  much  for  that  relative  in  which,  as  Pope  bitterly  describes  it,  one  has  no  alternative  but  to  he  either  :  Po—'d  by  her  love  or  libell'd  by  hei  hate!  1809.  Mum.  Feb.  16  LENT  ASSIZES.  NORTHERN  CIRCUIT.  Mr.  Justice  Lawrence  and  Mr.  Justice  Le  Blanc.  City  of  York—Saturday,  March  11,  at  the  Guildhall  of  the  said  City.  Yorkshire—The  same  day,  at  the  Castle  of  York.  Lancashire  —Thursday,  March  23,  at  the  Castle  of  Lancaster."
