text
"THE  NATIONAL,  REGISTER.  gelical  vocabulary,  poor  and  sinful  his  lea-.  tares,  which  are  naturally  decisive,  seem  already  to  have  ac.  quired  the  expression  of  sectarian  sheepishness.  There  is  postive.  ly  something  frightful,  as  well  unmanly,  in  the  vulgarised  evan•  gelical  phisiognotny.  It  is  not  easy  to  avoid  being,  very  pai  ils  fully  affected  at  hearing  a  man,  with  looks  rather  condemning  than  consecrated,  warning  some  of  his  auditors  to  nee  from  1  damnation  and  exhorting  some  to  rejoice  in  their  being  still  Oat  of  and  on  Christianity  ought  to  inspire  its  teachers  with  satisfied  sensations,  arising  from  the  calmness  of  conscience,  from  the  voice  within  ;  and  to  '  endue  them  with  correct  conceptions,  decent  dignity,  and  holy  boldness,  in  their  addresses  to  their  congregations.  Dr.  Draper  is  not,  1  hope,  become  ashamed  of  appearing  to  be  one  of  men  of  who  are  so  much  the  objects  of  ‘atfecti  d  contempt  among  the  party  with  which  he  is  now  acting.  Such  phrases  as  you  and  I  and  Who'd  have  Do  you  nsk  the  why?  I'll  tell  you  phrases,  and  others  of  the  same  Almi),  are  not  to  be  defended  by  his  exclaiming,  speaking  of  Vmself,  Don't  Say  this  •Fel •Fellow  low •Fellow  (meaaiug  himself)  is  a  Methodist,  and  therefore  he  is  obliged  to  talk  in  this  &amp;c.  &amp;c.  Nothing  &amp;generates  so  rapidly  as  the  human  mind  when  it  abandons  the  principles  of  cultivated  excellence.  lam  sorry  to  hear  Dr.  Draper  decrying  intelkctual  attainments;  and,  in  compliance  with  the  degrading  cant  of  many  other  evangelical  orators,  seeming  to  despise  those  talents  to  which  he  owes  his  superiority.  My  concern,  as  to  this  last  particular,  apptoaches  to  indignation,  when  I  suspect  that  Dr.  Draper,  in  depreciating  literary  perfections,  does  not  speak  his  explicit  sentiments.  Has  he  not.  associated  a,  ith  Vic Victory  tory Victory  characters  ?  Has  he  not,  within  the  two  last  year,  obtain obtained  ed obtained  two  prizes,  on  political  questions,  at  one  of  the  public  Dc Dcbating-Societies  bating-Societies Dcbating-Societies  ;  where  lie  had  spoken  before,  with  consider considerable  able considerable  applause?  If  my  information  be  not  here  seriously  correct,  1  um  most  egregiously  deceived.  how  ill  does  it  hcarem  Dr.  Draper,  then,  to  preach  against  composition  awl  eloquence!  His  depreciation  of  literature  and  oratory  ..  is  as  impolitic  as  it  is  improper.  Ile  must  cultivate  both  literature  and  oratory,  instead  of  neglecting  thaw  excellent  qualifications;  or  he  must  ~,  be  content  to  confine  his  exertions  to  Spa-fields,  and  the  Loudon  Itinerant  Society.  Vulgarity  of  manner  and  language  will  not  now  succeed  in  Orange-street  Chapel.  The  great  attraction  of  Dr.  Draper's  preaching  is  its  fluency.  It  is  of  the  conversational  description  ;  he  takes.  you  as  it  were  by  the  Nato.'  ;  and  familiarly,  though  not  forcibly,  detains  ,  raw  iteteation.  •  He  shakes  •yise  by  the  handoend  - STYLE=superscript  yort  are  In-  6 STYLE=superscript  1  dined  tolistivo  to  what  be  has  to  say,  His  may  he  &amp;gritted  as  the  how-d'ye-do  style  of  preaching.  Even  when  he  tics  above  his  customary  equability  of  delivery,  which  seldom  happens,  be  rather  batangites  than  preaches.  Ills  voice  is  harsh,  but  audible  ;  aid  his  enunciation  is  distinct.  his  eloquence  is  prompt  and  unimpeded.  •  His  exordiums  are  too  long.  His  discourses,  however,  are  often  interesting  and  instructive;  and  they  are  far  more  rational  than  his  prayers.  lie  reasons  his  argument  with  great  force,  and  is  generally  apt,  but,  almost  as  generally,  low  to  his  illus illustrations.  trations. illustrations.  He  does  not  attend  much  to  the  division  of  his  sub-  '  ject,  His  sermons  are  conducted  upon  a  story  !  •telling  system,  if  system  it  may  be  defined  ;  which  leaves  him  at  liberty  to  drop  any  topic  when  he  pleases,  and  to  resume  it  when  he  finds  it  con convenient.  venient. convenient.  Ile  possesses  considerable  information  ;  and  on  this  account,  no  less  than  on  account  of  the  popularity  of  his  de delivery,  livery, delivery,  he  might  render  himself  highly  useful  and  honourably  distinguished.  Too  much  is  it  to  be  apprehended,  that  unworthy  ambition  will,  notwithstanding  his  abilities  and  advantages,  operate  against  Dr.  Draper's  actual.  attainment  of  substantial  dignity.  lie  appears  to  mistake  popularity  for  reputation.  As  there  exist  those  who  expect  to  be  heard  for  their  touch  speaking,  so  there  will  he  found  those  who  look  to  be  remembered  because  they  are  often  mentioned.  Dr.  Draper  seems  also  misplaced  in  In  the  arrangement  of  our  social  system.  Instead  of  being  stationed  as  a  Minister  of  Christianity,  he  ought,  I  conceive,  to  have  figured  as  a  Member  of  Parliament.  A  man  should  not  feud  himself  necessitated  to  intercede  for  the  government  of  his  country  in  the  pulpit,  when  be  might  hove  patriotically  arraigned  its  measures  in  the  senate.  I  have  heard  that  Dr.  Draper  is  the  author  of  some  sermons  on  the  Liturgy.  lie  is  certainly  an  acquisition  to  Spa-Fields  Chapel,  and  even  to  the  College  at  Cheshunt.  lle  will  do  well,  nevertheless,  not  to  imitate  the  dictatorial  arrogance,  the  self selfrighteous  righteous selfrighteous  importance,  with  which  Dr.  flaweis  superinteuded  t  he  concerns  of  the  countess  of  lieutingdon.  Jun.  in,  ISM  OmEsilltrs.  Yrin►ed  an  4  l'ob!ished  by  and  for  JA  N.  29.  The  sudden  thaw  has  produced  effects  in  the  streets  of  the  Me Metropolis.,  tropolis., Metropolis.,  and  the  roads  in  the  neighbourhood,  which  have  been  scarcely  paralelled  at  any  former  period.  The  water  produced  by  the  melting  of  a  vast  body  of  snow,  has  rendered  some  of  the  rinds  quite  impassable,  and  the  torrents  which  have  thus  been  cawed,  have  dune  great  damage.  At  Battle-bridge,  Gray's-Inn  llne  road,  the  water,  ou  Wednesday,  rushed  into  the  houses,  and  the  inhabitants  were  forced  to  fly  to  their  upper  stories  fur  pro protection,  tection, protection,  the  road  could  only  be  passed  with  great  difficulty  by  carts.  In  Dorset-street,  Porsnan-square,  the  common  sewer  has  blown  up  and  left  a  dreadful  chasm;  and  the  houses  in.the  neigh neighbourhood  bourhood neighbourhood  are  all  under  water.  In  the  neighbourhood  of  Ken Kennington  nington Kennington  and  Vauxhall,  a  torrent  of  water  has  arisen,  which,  In  its  progress,  has  carried  away  furniture,  trunks  of  trees,  catle,  &amp;c.  and  has  destroyed  a  great  number  of  bridges.  The  Clapham  road  is  rendered  quite  impassable  :  several  houses  were  on  Thurs Thursday  day Thursday  completely  insulated  by  the  water,  and  the  inhabitants  un unable  able unable  to  obtain  provisions,  or  to  get  out  of  their  houses.  COURT  OF  KING'S  BENCH,  JAN.  26.  LORD  DORMER  v.  KNIGHT,  ESQ  Mr.  Serjeant  Shepherd  made  an  application  to  the  Court  for  a anew  new anew  trial  on  the  groand,  that  the  opinion  delivered  by  the  Chief  Justice  was  orroneons,  that  Mrs.  Knight  merely  by  re receiving  ceiving receiving  the  visits  of  Colonel  Fuller,  as  of  tiny  other  gentleman  of  her  acquaintance,  would  incur  the  forfeiture  of  4001.  per  an annum,  num, annum,  part  of  the  provision  for  her  and  the  Ser Serjeant  jeant Serjeant  insisted  that  the  word  introduced  into  the  deed,  must  be  understood  to  mean  association  of  a.  Criminal  na nature,  ture, nature,  which  neither  was  proved,  nor  had  been  attempted  to  he  proved;  that  evidence  had  been  received  of  a  person  calling  herself  Mary  Etches,  but  whose  real  name  was  Hobbs,  of  some  circumstances  from  - STYLE=superscript  whence  it  had  been  insisted  that  Colonel  Fuller  and  Mrs.  Knight  had  been  preYious  to  the  sepa separapist'  rapist' separapist'  found  in  improper  situations.  The  learned  Serjeant  slat slated.  ed. slated.  that  since  the  trial  of  the  cause  of  Colonel  Fuller,  had  made  an  affidavit,  in  which  he  iu  the  most  solo=  and  positive  manner  swore,  that  the  whole  of  the  evideuce  was  absolutely  false,  and  t  hat  he  had:neve7either  before  or  after  the  execution  of  the  Deed  or  at  any  time  or  upon  any  occasion  in  his  life  taken  any  improper  liberty  witk  Ilrs.Knight.  That  Col.  Fuller  was  ready  and  aux  ious  to  have  given  the  most  positive  and  pointed  evidence  to  that  effect,  and  the  Plaintiff's  Counsel  would  most  certainly  have  called  him  hut  were  prevented  by  the  opinion  deiivered  by  the  learned  Chief  Justice,  inasmuch  as  it  never  had  beenat  tempted  to  be  deed  that  Faller  had  visited  Mrs.  'Knight  subsequent  to  the  execution  of  tae  deeil  ;  and  however  pure  and  proper  the  conduct  of  the  par parties  ties parties  at  such  interview  was,  still  their  operation  destro,  ed  the  .provision  made  by  the  first  deed.  That  in  addition  to  the  affidavit  of  Colonel  Fuller,  he  had  also  the  affidavits  of  font*  other  iwrsons  of  unimpeachable  character,  well  aerttailited  with  Mary  Etches,  directly  proving  the  falsehood  of  her  testimony.  The  Court,  however,  did  not  think  it  necessary  to  send  the  cause  down  for  a  new  trial,  as  they  concurred  with  the  Chief  Justice  in  his  legal  construction  of  the  deed.  We  have  the  gratification  to  find  our•  pre  liction  realized,  re relative  lative relative  to  that  invaluable  Invention  the  Magnetic  Razor  the  extensive  demand  for  which  as  we  are  credibly  as assured,  sured, assured,  having  very  far  exceeded  the  Inventors  most  sanguine  expectations,  and  the  late  intense  weather  has  very  opportunely  for  him,  served  as  a  complete  test  of  its  superior  utility  over  every  precedent  discovery  for  similar  purposes,  rendering  the  edge  of  a  razorso  scientifically  acute,  that  its  action  is  attended  with  pleasure  instead  of  pain  (usual!)  , STYLE=superscript  produced  in  the  opera,  tion  of  shaving  during  an  iticlement  season).  Sold  at  is.  6d.  each  (with  full  directions,  which  will  enable  any  person  to  use  a  hone  with  adroitness),  at  the  Inventor's  Warehouses,  52,  Park-street,  Grosvenor-square,  and  65,  Cheapside.—Each  Tab Tablet  let Tablet  is  sold  signed  J.  T.  Rigee,  in  red  and  nambered."
