text
"OFFICI  kT,  ADVICE  TO  THE  PUBLIC.  CORUS  NA  ,  D  nu.  Since  the  last  advice,  the  Supreme  Junta  received  various  and  discordant  information  relative  to  the  state  of  the  capital,  notwithstanding  they  spared  neither  trouble  nor  expence  to  obtain  authentic  intelligence,  until  an  express  arrived  from  Catalonia,  dated  last  night,  which  positively  states,  that  Thursday,  Madrid  was  still  defending  itself  with  the  utmost  vigour—that  a  division  of  the  army  of  Castanos  was  in  the  neighbourhood  of  that  capital  ;  and  that  Don  Pena  was  also  directing  his  mar:  to  that  point,  and  lastly,  that  the  French  are  earnestly  desiring  a  capitulation  of  the  inhabitants  of  Madrid.  As  to  Sierra  Morena,  our  head-quarters  are  .  established  at  that  point;  and  our  army  in  that  quarter  is  hourly  reinforced  by  the  troops.  who  were  dispersed  by  the  enemy,  and  armed  peasantry  :—that  the.  J  u  nta  of  Defence  formed  there  of  the  Deputies  of  the  four  Kingdoms  of  Andalusia,  and  of  the  other  two  of  La  Mancha,  is  almost  constantly  assembled,  making  the  utmost  exertions,  in  concert  with  the  Commanding  General,  to  secure  that  important  point  against  any  successful  attack  on  the  part  of  the  enemy.  The  Junta  has  also  received  orders  imme immediately  diately immediately  to  march  all'  the  prisoners  who  are  in  this  kingdom,  to  Cadiz  by  small  divisions,  escorted  by  armed  peasants,  to  be  put  at  the  disposal  of  the  Governor  of  that  city.  The  Junta  has  likewise  got  a  letter  from  his  Excellency  the  Deputy  of  the  Central  Junta,  dated  Truxillo,  the  Bth  of  December,  stating,  that  the  Deputies  of  Catalonia  have  received  intelligence  that  we  have  rendered  ourselves  masters  of  Barcelona.  By  com cominand  inand cominand  of  the  Junta.  ANTONIO  BARTHOLOMEW.  Curdova,  Dec.  12,  le08.  PRO  VIN  C  IA  LS.  MONTHLY  AGRICULTURAL  REPORT.  The  early  sown  u  heats,  which  were  every  where  in  almost  as  unexampled  state  of  forwardness  and  luxuriance,  have  suffered  a  seasonable  check,  by  the  setting  in  of  the  sharp  frosts,  and  will,  probably,  be  much  benefited  thereby.  as  the  slight  fall  of  snow,  which  took  place  at  the  same  time,  will  protect  them  from  any  material  injury  which  might  otherwise  have  been  the  case  ;  and  those  put  in  at  a  later  period,  are  by  nth  means  in  a  -sate  of  growth  to  butqa  n  any  inisch;ef  in  this  w:.)  .  in  EtOand  and  Wales,  Wheat  averages,  per  qunrter,  90s.  2d.  Barle  , STYLE=superscript  .,  455.  and  Oats,  335.  The  'must:a:  mildness  of  the  season,  till  within  these  few  days,  has  had  t.f:'  , STYLE=superscript  t  in  preventing  the  consumption  of  the  stock  of  food  ;  st:  tt:at  thefitrmer  was,  perhaps,  seldom  better  pr  i  :,t  thk  time  for  the  styport  of  his  live  stock  :  aud,  in  addition  to  this,  the  crops  of  turnips  and  other  -winter  green  food,  ucre  telU  um  better,  or  more  ftbundant.—The  busiuers  of  stall  feeding.  has,  this  y...ar,  gone  on  remarkably  well  in  most  places,  froal  the  weather  being  so  mild  and  open  till  within  these  few  days.—The  same  cause  has  likewise  been  equally  favourable  to  the  performance  of  all  the  uitrere►zt  opc-  Rations  of  husbandry,  which  require  to  he  execnted  at  this  sea-on  •  On  threshing  out  the  crops,  they,  in  ►r.ns►  situations,  t►►rn  out  better  than  was  supposed  at  the  period  of  housing  the  grain.  •  On  Wednesday  the  inhabitants  cf  Lancaster  were  highly  amused,  aLtout  one  o'clock,  by  a  numerous  asse!ablage  Of  sports sportsmen  men sportsmen  entering  the  town  in  pursuit  of  a  hare  that  had  been  hunted  for  several  hours  on  the  Moor,  near  tile  town.  Puss  entered  the  town,  being  nearly  exhausted,  by  Monr-laii..,  Arent  round  the  stone  well  into  St.  Leonard's  Gate,  entered  a  house,  the  door  of  which  was  open,  and  endeavoared  to  conceal  herself  under  some  furniture,  when  an  old  woman  appearing,  alarmed  poor  Puss,  and  she  endeavoured  to  escape  by.itimping  through  the  window,  in  . STYLE=superscript  w  hich  Harm  pt  she  broke  several  sluares  of  glass.  One  of  the  huntsmen  cline  op  at  the  time,  took  her,  and  liberated  her  near  the  New  •  ridge,  for  another  day's  sport.  At  the  sale  •of  the  late  Mr.  Woodis's  ferniture,  at  Penzance,  a  clie.stitif  ers  was  purchased  by  Mr.  ;819‘  le  of  Ma:a  /ion,  111et6194.  Upon  examining  his  purchase,  this  gentletaau  dis dis•  • dis•  1r  et  diawer,  containing  100  guineas,  which  he  very  .14 STYLE=superscript  !  *Owned.  The  iiroprietors,  to  testify  their  sense  of  ate  conduct,  have  presented  that  gentleman  a  t  - STYLE=superscript  -4  ;  r;  *  :  .  yn  which  a  memorial  of  the  circumstance  is  in."
