text
"TIIE  NATIOisTAt  REGISTER.  It  ussia  ;  and  kept  their  Sovereign  and  country  in  the  most  abject  state  of  dependence,  that  they  might  have  au  op opportunity  portunity opportunity  of  gratifying  their  own  rapacity,  Whatever  policy  the  usurping  Cabal  may  think  expedient  to  pursue,  we  are  happy  to  be  informed;  that  our  Govern  , STYLE=superscript  Inca  is  determined  to  persevere  in  the  operations  which  had  been  projected  for  the  Baltic,  previously  to  the  late  revo revolution;  lution; revolution;  and  that  it  will  keep  that  sea  open  in  spite  of  the  opposition  of  Sweden,  should  it  evince  a  wish  to  resist.  For  this  purpose  a  formidable  feet  is  preparing  with  the  great greatest  est greatest  expedition.  Sir  -I  -AMES  SAIJMAE.EZ  has  been  sent  to  Sheerness  and  Chatham  to  superintend  the  equipment  of  20  sail  of  the  line  and  15  frigates,  which  are  to  sail  imme immediately  diately immediately  to  the  North.  That  gallant  and  distinguished  Offi Officer,  cer, Officer,  at  the  head  of  so  large  a  force,  will  he  the  most  effica=  cious  Negociator  this  country  can  employ,  to  arrange  our  differences  with  the  States  situated  on  the  shores  of  the  The  great  subject  of  peace,  or  war,  in  Germany  Is  not  yet  brought  to  a  conclusion  ;  but  every  article  assumes  a  stronger  tone  of  hostility;  every  new  arrival  preludes  more  and  more  every  prospect  of  an  amicable  adjustment.  It  isimpossible  form  any  thing  like  a  de decisive  cisive decisive  spet  ulation  on  the  possible  result  of  the  impending  contest,  considering  the  difficulties  we  labour  under  to  ob obtain  tain obtain  positive  information  of  the  resources  and  spirit  of  the  two  parties.  We  have  only  the  coloured,  distorted  and  partial  accounts  of  the  enemy  to  guide  us  on  this  occasion.  When  these  make  therefore  a  concession  in  favour  of  Austria,  prudence  would  inculcate  the  necessity  of  be believing  lieving believing  them  to  more  than  their  full  extent;  and  when  they  detract  from  the  resources  of  that  power,  common  experience  would  justify  the  highest  degree  of  scepticism.  We  have  no  certain  data  to  regulate  our  judgment,  no  other  information  to  guide  our  speculations,  than  what  we  collect  from  the  very  cabinet  of  the  tyrant,  or  from  those  of  his  agents,  who  are  the  organs  of  his  will  at  A  thsterdam,  Hamburg  and  Frankfort.  Not  a  single  article  appears  on  any  of  the  papers  published  in  the  extensive  tract,  com comprising  prising comprising  the  French  empire,  that  is  not  dictated,  or  re reiced  iced reiced  by  an  agent  of  the  French  government.  Freedom  of  discussion  has  long  ceased  on  the  conti continent.  nent. continent.  The  communication  of  a  single  fact,  obnoxious  to  the  views  of  the  tyrant,  would  be  succeeded  by  the  imme immediate  diate immediate  seizure  of  the  property  and  person  of  the  imprudent  publisher;  and  his  life  pay  the  penalty  of  his  indiscretion.  Inder  such  restrictions,  there  is  no  possibility  of  obtaining  in  this  country,  certain  intelligence  from  Germany.  What  we  receive  is  purely  French.  From  that  source  every  thing,  ns  may  be  expected,  magnifies  the  armies  and  finances  of  the  enemy,  as  much  as  it  endeavours  to  depreciate  those  of  Austria.  We  are  obliged  to  estimate  the  means  of  the  lat latter,  ter, latter,  the  sentiments  of  her  inhabitants,  and  the  energy  of  her  Government,  from  documents  similar  to  those  with  ti  hich  we  are  occasionally  favoured  from  Paris  )  relative  to  the  actual  state  of  the  Spanish  nation.  A  letter  from  Lisbon,  by  the  last  packet,  discloses  a  fact  of  great  interest.  A  French  spy  was  discovered,  and  his  person  and  papers  secured  a  few  hours  after  he  had  left  Lisbon.  He  had  previously  imposed  himself  on  the  Mem Members  bers Members  of  the  Regency,  as  a  secret,  but  accredited  agent  from  the  Court  of  London,  and  in  that  character  obtained  from  time  to  time  the  whole  of  the  plans  for  the  future  move movements  ments movements  and  disposal  of  the  British,  as  well  as  the  Portu Portuguese  guese Portuguese  troops.  His  censummate  address  introduced  him  to  the  inspection  e%en  of  the  Government  dispatches.  Ile  was  about  to  quit  Po.  tugal,  whett  he  was  recognised  by  au  aciinaintai  ce  as  the  editor  and  conductor  of  the  Bayonne  Gaz.ette.  He  was  nu  usagy  anxious  that  his  real  name  feio  Aid  pot  transpire,  he  slated  that  his  appearance  in  Por Portugal  tugal Portugal  wks  on  affairs  01  th  e  utmost  importance  to  his  private  interests.  This  concealment,  so  eagerly  solicited,  excite.l  suspicion  and  led  to  entriries,  the  result  of  which  was  an  tatter  from  the  Regcncy  to  secure  his  person.  He  had,  how.  APRIL  ga  ever,  in  the  interval,  effeeted  his  escape  front  Lisbon  ;  but  his  route  was  discovered;  and  in  a  tew  hours  afterwards  he  was  pursued  and  overtaken  by  a  party  of  cavalry;  with  whom  was  the  gentleman  to  whom  he  was  really  known.  His  papers  are  of  the  utmost  importance  ;  and  many  of  them  are  already  in  London.  They  lead  to  discoveries  of  real  consequence  to  this  country,  and  will  we  understand,  involve  several  persons  here  in  extreme  difficulty  and  ger.  We  copy  the  following  paragraph  from  an  American  Paper  of  the  i4th  of  February,  which  states  it  to  be  the  substance  of  the  dispatches  about  to  he  transmitted  to  Bri Britain  tain Britain  and  France  An  offer  is  to  be  made  to  each  of  the  bellige•ents  to  this  Amotint—lf  you  will  annul  your  ob obnoxious  noxious obnoxious  orders  (or  decrees,  as  the  case  may  be)  we  will  immediately  recommence  our  commercial  intercourse  with  you  :  and  if  your  antagonist,  to  lahom  we  have  made  the  .amc  °tier,  refrises  to  abolish  his  unlawful  edicts,  we  will  join  you  in  a  war  against  him.  If  you  both  refuse  to  ac accede  cede accede  to  our  demands,  we  will  raise  our  embargo  in  Nay  next,  or  as  soon  as  our  dispatch  vessels  return,  and  force  a  trade  on  the  ocean,  at  the  risk  of  being  at  war  with  both  of  /Voshin,l  t  m  Federalist.)  IfOItSE•CiIARDS,  '2o.—The  Commander  in  Chie,  s  received  the  King's  command  to  make  known  to  the  Armyf  that  his  Miljesty  thought  fit  to  command  that  the  following  ;emulations  01411  hereafter  be  strictly  observed  in  regard  to  Pro Proino;iwis  ino;iwis Proino;iwis  in  the  Army,  and  appointments  on  the  Stall',  viz.  `•  No  Ofliter  shalt  be  I  rontoted  to  the  rank  of  Captain,  until  lie  hEls  been  three  years  a  ~übaltern.  g  . STYLE=superscript  No  Officer  shall  be  promoted  to  the  rank  of  Field  Officer,  until  he  has  been  seven  vears  in  the  service,  of  which  he  shall  been  at  least  two  seats  a  Captain.  Nu  Officer  shall  be  promoted  to  the  rank  of  Lieutenant-4  Colon  e  l,  until  he  has  been  nine  years  in  the  service,  of  which  he  shall  have  been  at  least  two  :ears  a  Majors  4 STYLE=superscript  6  No  Officer  shall  be  allowed  to  fill  any  Staff  Appointment,  that  of  Aid-de-Camp  excepted,  until  he  has  been  one  year  a  By  the  Commander  in  Chief's  command,  11  ItRY  CALVERT,  Adj...oolL"
