text
"Xll  ha;  compelled  him  to  resort  to  the  means  of  retaliation,  by  re-  Startling  on  a  sanguinary  banditti  violence  for  violence,  he  hereby  decreer  :--  I.  That  no  quarter  shall  be  given  to  any  French  soldier,  Offi Officer,  cer, Officer,  or  tieneral  l  who  may  be  made  prisoner  in  any  town  or  district,  iu  which  acts  contrary  to  the  laws  of  war  have  been  committed  by  the  enemy,  but  that  such  persons  shall  be  imme immediately  diately immediately  put  to  the  sword,  us  an  example  to  their  companions  and  satisfactioq  to  outraged  humanity.  11.  That  the  present  Decree  shall  be  printed,  proclaimed,  and  distributed  in  the  Spanish  armies,  in  order  to  its  due  execution.  You  are  also  required  to  make  arrangements  for  the  fulfilment  of  the  same.  The  Marquis  of  A  STOIRGA,  Vice-President.  MA  RTIN  DI:  GA  ft  A  Y.  p  q  ne  in  the  Royal  Alcazar  of  Seville,  Fel).  7,  1809.  PARLIANENT.  HOUSE  OF  LORDS.  .11ondap,  March  21.  businen  of  importituce.  Thursday,  March  30.  The.  Royal  Assent,  by  Commission  was  given  to  the  Corn  Ex Exportation  portation Exportation  Prohibition,  Spirit  %Va.:it  Putv,  Tobacco  Importa Importation,  tion, Importation,  N  ewfoundland  Judicature,  Crown  Office  Glerks,  and  several  '  , STYLE=superscript  thaw  iliils.-  7  -Adjourned  until  'Thursday  week.  ROUST.  OF  COMMONS.  Monday,  March  27.  Mr,  DAyirg  Grnny  brought  in  a  Bill  for  making  an  arch arch'pay  'pay arch'pay  through  Highgate  Hill.  Read  a  first,  and  ordered  to  be  read  a  second  time.  Sir  WI  t.Tt.t  s  Cup's  brought  in  a  NB  for  improving  Smith Smithfield  field Smithfield  Markrt,  and  for  enablin;  the  Corporation  of  the  City  of  London  to  purchase  lands  nud  houses  for  that  purpose.  Read  a  first,  and  ordered  to  he  read  a  second  time.  He  likewise  hroughb  in  a  Bill  for  renewing  the  Sunday  Toil  On  Blackfriars-Bridge.  Mr.  Alderman  SIIA  w,  and  Mr.  Aldennap  Com  BE,  supported  the  Bin,  which  was  read  a  first  time.  The  West  41104  'locks  Commercial  Road  Bill  was  read  a  first  time."
