text
"THE  KING  , STYLE=superscript  V.  HANSOM.  This  important  trial  came  on  before  Sir  Simon  Le  Blanc  and  a.  special  Jury,  on  Wednesday  se'nnight.  The  Defendant  Joseph  Hanson,  Esq.  was  indicted  for  having  uulawt'ully  en encouraged  couraged encouraged  a  number  of  persons  to  riot.  Sergeant  Pocket  addressed  the  Jury  on  the  part  of  the  Crown.  It  appeared  the  weavers  assembled  in  great  numbers  on  the  2ith  of  May,  near  Manchester;  that  the  next  morning  they  again  assembled.  much  increased  in  numbers  ;  that  Mr,  Stark  ie,  the  gorough-Reeve,  strove  to  persuade  them  to  disperse,  but  in  '  vain.  In  the  afternoon  they  were  increased  to  about  10,000;  and  the  Magistrates,  preceded  by  a  party  of  the  •lth  dragoons,  came  to  the  ground,  and  the  riot  act  was  read.  About  this  time,  the  Defendant  arrived  on  horse-back,  attended  by  his  groom:  be  went  up  to  Captain  Trafford  (who  commanded  the  dragoons)  and  asked,  might  he  speak  to  the  people  ?  Captain  T.  said  not  unless  he  could  persuade  them  to  depart  peaceably  ;  hut  he  thonght  his  (the  Defendant's)  presence  would  irritate  them  ;  and  he  told  him,  that  he  would  oblige  him  if  he  would  leave  the  field.  This  he  did  not  immediately  ;  but  as  he  rode  along  the  people  huzza'd,  and  he  pulled  off  his  hat,  and  spoke  to  them.  The  witnesses  for  the  prosecution  swore,  that  they  heard  him  use  ex expressions  pressions expressions  to  the  following  effect  My  lads,  your  cause  is  good—he  firm,  and  you  will  I  will  support  you  as  far  as  three  thousand  pounds  will  go,  and  if  that  will  not  do,  I  will  go  Nadin  and  his  faction  shall  not  drive  you  from  the  field  this  I  am  sorry  your  bill  is  lost—my  father  was  a  ‘64.4  - STYLE=superscript  ier,  I  am  a  weaver,  and  have  got  my  money  by  your  industry,  and  lam  the  weaver's  He  afterwards  left  the  field,  and  rode  towards  his  own  house,  To  prove  this.,  a  serjeant  and  two  corporals,  of  the  9th  dra drapot's,  pot's, drapot's,  and  two  constables,  were  called.  Mr.  Kahle  made  a  most  eloquent  speech  for  the  Defendant,  and  said,  he  should  call  many  respectable  witnesses  to  prove  that  he,  on  that  day,  was  constantly  advising  the  people  to  be  peaceable,  and  to  retire  to  their  homes..  The  groom  who  at attended  tended attended  the  Defendant  the  whole  of  the  time,  said  he  never  heard  his  master  make  qse  of  the  expressions  sworn  to  by  the  other  witnesses  ;  that  when  the  dragoons  drew  their  sword,  his  mas master's  ter's master's  horse  becoming  restive,  he  slipped  off,  walked  a  little  way,  and  then  moented  the  groom's  horse  and  rode  off.  Mr.  Stennett,  Illr.  Norris,  Mr.  C.  Satterthwaite,  Dtr.  Brierley,  and  a  number  of  others,  deposed  $o  the  Defendant's  exhorting  the  people  to  refrain  from  mischief.  None  of  these  witnesses  heard  him  make  use  of  the  expressions  ascribed  to  him.  The  Jury.,  after  a  few  minutes  consideration,  returned  a  ver verdict  dict verdict  of  Guilty.  The  Defendant  will  receive  hissentence  in  the  Court  efliieg's  Beach,  uext  term.  The  wonderful  mare  belonging  to  Mr.  Wilson,  the  liveryman,  performed  a  task  unprecedented  in  the  sporting  calendar.  The  owner  of  the  mare  hacked  her  on  the  28111  olt.  for  a  wager  of  1)00  guineas,  to  go  50  miles  in  three  hours  and  a  half,  this  being  at  the  rate  of  nearly  15  miles  an  hour.  The  animal  went  off  in  high  condition  on  Thursday,  on  the  Woodford  Road,  nod  went  above  15  miles  within  an  hour  at  a  steady  trot  !  and  continued  to  do  the  same  in  the  next  two  hours:  the  difficulty  in  the  per performance  formance performance  was  the  last  five  miles  in  the  half  hour,  which  was  nevertheless  done  in  four  minutes  less  than  the  given  time;  betting  was  seven  tq  four  and  two  to  one  against  the  mare.  NEWS  FOR  VENISON  EATERS.-  , STYLE=superscript  --FrOM  the  severity  of  the  late  winter,  the  mortality  among  the  deer  throughout  the  coun country  try country  has  been  greater  than  was  ever  known.  it  is  supposed  tbat  no  less  than  from  between  four  to  five  hundred  have  died  in  Sal Salcey  cey Salcey  forest  !  in  the  County  of  Northampton  since  NoveMber  last.  HORRID  MuanEß.—Thursday  morning,  'at  ten  o'clock,----  Richards,  Esq.  Coroner  for  the  County  of  Berks,  held  an  inquest  '  at  the  Jolly  Gardeners  !  Windsor,  in  the  Parish  of  Cluver,  on  the  body  of  Sarah  Newton,  a  woman  of  the  town,  who  was  found  dead  lying  on  her  bed,  with  her  cloaths  on,  between  five  !Ind  six  o'clock  on  Wednesday'  morning,  by  her  son,  a  youth  about  fifteen  years  of  age,  who  was  going  to  his  daily  employ employment  ment employment  as  a  bricklayer's  labourer  ;  he,  not  being  well,  called  on  his  mother  for  some  halfpence  to  get  him  some  peppermint  drops.  When  be  came  to  her  apartment,  he  found  the  front  an  l  back  door  open,  sh'  liv  in  . STYLE=superscript  on  the  ground  floor  in  Cluver Cluver*,  *, Cluver*,  :04  ;111!  . STYLE=superscript  tc*:  •  og‘  be  I  t  and"
