text
"DUKE  OF  YORK.  The  CHANCELLOR  of  the  EXCHEQUER  rose,  and  expressed  himself  nearly  as  follows  :—Sir,  from  the  tenor  of  a  part  of  Mrs.  Clarke's  evidence,  it  appeated  as  if  she  wished  it  to  be  under-.  stood  that  she  ptoeured  for  Co!.  French  the  appointment  which  he  holds  in  the  West  Indies.  But  so  far  from  this,  the  situation  he  now  holds  is  pritcisely  the  same  as  he  held  before  the  levy,  not  any  office  given  him  to  compensate  for  his  disap disappointment.  pointment. disappointment.  The  Honourable  Mover  of  these  charges  says,  that  the  levy  would  immediately  have  been  put  a  stop  to  but  for  the  influence  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  that,  owing  to  that  influence,  two  months  elapsed,  after  the  most  grievous  complaints  had  been  made  against  the  officers  employed  on  that  levy,  before  a  stop  was  pa  s  t  to  it.  But  this  was  partly  owing  to  circumstances  in incidental  cidental incidental  to  nil  the  great  public  offices,  and  partly  from  a  desire.  to  see  w  Let  her,  as  very  large  sums  of  motley  had  been  expended,  this  levy  could  not  in  the  end  be  rendered  efficient.  The  expense  of  the  men  actually  raised,  which  was  estimated  at  150/.  a  man,  wris  very  easily  accounted.  for.  The  next  case  to  which  I  call  the  attention  of  the  Douse,  is  that  of  Col.  Shaw.  Mrs.  Clarke's  evidence,  if  it  could  Le  believed,  undoubtedly  confirmed  the  statement  of  the  Ilon,:Gentleman  who  brought  forward  these  charges,  that  through  her  influence  he  had  been  put.  upon  half halfpay.  pay. halfpay.  The  letter  of  Col.  Shaw  contradicted  the  evidence  of  Mrs..  Clarke.  It  appeared  from  the  documents  presented  by  Col.  Gordon,  that  he  owed  the  appointment  to  the  zealous  inter interference  ference interference  of  General  Sir  :Harry  Isurrard,  who  was  an  old  friend  of  his  father's,  and  that  if  he  obtained  the  appointment  of  Deputy  Barrack-Master-General  at  the  Cape,  he  was  to  be  put  on  half halfpay.  pay. halfpay.  Upon  what  plea  then  can  it  be  said,  that  it  was  Mrs.  Clarke's  influence  which  procured  Col.  Shaw  to  be  pit  upon  half-pay  ?  In  regard  to  Dowlees  case,  I  may  observe,  that  it  rests  entirely  upon  the  testimony  of  Mrs.  Clarke  and  Dow  kr  himself,  and  is  unsupported  by  any  corroborating  evidence.  Whether  or  not  Mrs.  Clarke  received  a  1000/.  from  Dowier  we  have  no  means  of  knowing,  except,  from  themselves;  but  we  have  had  evidence.  enough  to  prove  that  Dow  ler  was  her  favour favourite  ite favourite  paramour.  It  appears,  however,  from  _the  evidence  given  by  an  lion.  Alderman  (Cotnbe)  that  Dossier,  at  the  time  Ie  received  his  aepointmeat,  stated  to  him  that  he  had  obtained  it  through  the  interest  of  Sir  .  Brook  Watson.  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  Kennet  wa,e  a  great  swindler,  yet  I  canne‘"
