text
"yjuinE  RE  GI  S  T  Eil,  •  .  i  _____,..  Our  Bing,  Conaitution,  anb  ILan4.  .  U  N  DAY  TO  THE  PL  —..........  -  ,B  S  LI  C.  1  MARCH  4  No.  63  .  POLITICAL  DISQUISITIO:  R  1  C  .  E  Bd.  —.-  _  .  )  NUMBER  SIXTY-ONE.  It  is  the  praise  pf  very  few  periodical  publications,  and  least  __.........  4:  of  all  of  Newspapers,  that  they  accomplish  the  promises  made  to  th  OUR  FOREIGN  CONCERNS.  r  I STYLE=superscript  t  world  in  their  Prospeatusses.  We  are  therefore  proud  to  decldre,  — STYLE=superscript  that  we  conceive  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER  to  have  ex-  This  is  a  subject  uncommonly  sterile,  when  considered  deeded,  in  its  progressive  execution,  the  performance  of  those  en-  as  a  source  of  national  exultation;  and  highly  repulsive,when  ,  I  gagenzents  which  we  originally  contracted  with  our  Subscribers,  taken  as  an  object  of  individual  research.  The  writer  has STYLE=superscript  and  the  Public;  and  we  now  confidently  appeal,  in  confirmation  too  many  prejudices  and  false  impressions  to  encounter  ;  the  citizen  too  much  mortification  and  alarm  to  sustain.  of  this  our  opinion,  to  the  experience  of  those  who  have  long  and  ,  f  tzniformly  honoured  us  by  attending  to  the  contents  of  our  Weekly  This  reluctance,  however,  must  be  surmounted  ;  for  the  Paper.  subject  becomes  every  day  more  urgent,  more  alarming.  We  would  willingly  draw  a  veil  over  the  past,  were  it  not  Notwithstanding  such  unremitting  exertions  on  our  part,  we  for  the  impressive  lessons  it  furnishes;  but,  were  it  fea-  Were  contented,  even  at  the  opening  of  the  present  year,  when  1,(1•  sible,  we  would  efface  every  recollection  of  the  last  fifteen  .  ..  ,  1  rioits  other  Public  Journals  found  it  necessary  to  enhance  the  years  from  our  own  and  the  memory  of  others.  It  is  the  price  of  their  labours,  to  endeavour  to  avoid,  if  possible,  any  hi  s  to  r  y  only  of  our  folly  and  weakness.  Not  a  trace  should  increase  in  our  charges  to  the  purchasers  of  TILE  NATIONAL  survive;  for  it  does  not  furnish  a  solitary  record  in  which  REGISTER.  Sorry  arc  toe  now  to  state  our  utter  inability  to  the  nation  has  not  been  disappointed;  and  the  government  remain  longer  stationary  as  to  pecuniary  compOnsation.  We  have  betrayed  marks  of  incapacity,  intemperance,  or  want  of  no  choice.  Either  we  must  impoverish  the  Literature  of  our  News-  f  o  resight.  We  have  interfered,  during  that  p  ortentous STYLE=superscript  in. STYLE=superscript  I,  e  terval  s  in  every  great,  and  almost  every  petty,  transaction  paper,  or  we  must  solicit  additional  remuneration.  Nor  is  this  of  the  Continent  ;  but  our  interference  was  neither  dignified  l':.  all.  The  sudden  and  rapid  and  unprecedented  advance  that  has  enough  to  create  confidence,  nor  sufficiently  vigorous  to  made  in  the  price  of  paper,  (the  Paper  on  w  hi STYLE=superscript  c  h STYLE=superscript  THE STYLE=superscript  Na- STYLE=superscript  II!'  been  secure  effect.  We  displayed  all  the  restlessness,  'melting).  .  .  l  t  io  N  A  L  REGISTER  is  printed  being  absolutely  SO  p  ercent. STYLE=superscript  dearer STYLE=superscript  that)  that  employed  by  any  otherNewspaper),To  SAY  NOTHIN  G.  P  PRINTING  MATERIALS  AND  OTHER  EX  PE  CES  incidental  N  to  our  undertaking,  renders  it  more  than  expedient  for  us,  4t  tion,  and  extravagant  ardour  of  youth  ;  but STYLE=superscript  our STYLE=superscript  :iloa STYLE=superscript  itires STYLE=superscript  excited  contempt  by  their  unseasonabl  eness, STYLE=superscript  or STYLE=superscript  irritatiott, STYLE=superscript  O  by  their  insufficiency.  On  occasions  , STYLE=superscript  s  uch STYLE=superscript  as STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  I STYLE=superscript  lit STYLE=superscript  ails ails) STYLE=superscript  ) ails)  relying,  rian  campaign,  when  delity  was  imperiously  iire:ent,  we  a;  we  do,  on  the  justice  of  our  Patrons,  to  add  ONE  PENNY  only  destroyed  evert  possibility  of  success  by  precipiracing  the  f  -  •  to-  the  price  of  our  toils;  which  rise  must  la  ke STYLE=superscript  e STYLE=superscript  ff  ect STYLE=superscript  on  Sunda  •  Y  contest;  and  when  prempt  and  vigorous  co-o STYLE=superscript  p  n  e  eratioeuld  i STYLE=superscript  II  .  very,  march-  the  iOthookpp  Tux  N,erzos!t  REGISTER  will  , STYLE=superscript  for  be  alone  efficacious.  we  blasted,  as  far  as  depended  upon  e  the  first  time,  be  charged  NINE  • STYLE=superscript  P  ENCE. STYLE=superscript  os,  by  our  dilatory  conduct,  every  reason  able STYLE=superscript  chance STYLE=superscript  o STYLE=superscript  f  Spanish  independence.  We  have  shown  a  pedantic  , STYLE=superscript  an  ob  . STYLE=superscript  Many  poteetfulainsideratioas  might  be  specified,  which,  be-  stinate  adherence  to  fornix,  when  they  were  useless  and  sides  what  has  been  just  said,  ought  perfcctlg  to  reconcile  our  Sub Subeven  even Subeven  impolitic,  as  Wll3  the  case  with  the  installation  of  the  scribers  to  the  Measure  we  now  announce.  Trilling  as  the  sum  of  ii  •  Supreme  Junta  ;  awl  in  instances  sh  e  their  violation  must  . STYLE=superscript  1  one-penny,  when  added  to  eight-pence,  may  appear  generally,  .I.  have  been  attended  with  t  h  e  most  imminent  risk,  re  dis disand  and disand  must  be  considered  individually,  yet  will  it  authorise  us  to  ex-  played  an  unpardonable  levity,  a  dangerous  indifference.  .  .  •.  ten  d  the  sphere  of  our  periodical  operations,  so  as  more  than  to  ,  Immense  sums  have  been  expended  under  the  uarne  of  secret  I  '  compensate  the  .  generosity  of  our  very  numerous  and,  we  know,  service  money  ;we  were,  however,  never  able  to  anticipate  highly  respectable  Purchasers.  Already  esteemed,  as  we  flatter  the  projects  of  the  enemy,  and  (nett  grossly  ignorant  of  the  ourselves,  for  the  original  independence  and  intelligence  of  our  extent  of  his  resources,  of  the  number  and  the  organisa-  ~  .i.  Political  Strictures,  for  the  novelty  and  integrity  of  our  Clerical  tioa  of  his  armies.  Our  agents  at  the  foreign  courts,  with  )  1  Criticisms,  for  the  peculiarity  and  variety  of  our  .lisceliz.neous  very  few  exceptions,  were  conspicuously  - STYLE=superscript  devoid  of  the  qua qua,  , qua,  Communication-,  as  uell  (49  for  all  that  relates  to  Arrangement  lineations  A  alit+  render  a  man  eminently  useful  in  the  di-  .Im4  .  -,,  '  -  and  Typogi..ph:.,.  in  oil  Wicith  essential  excellencies  we  hold  our;  plomatic  career.  A  diffe..rence  of  manners,  and  the  reserve,  i  i  .  i,  so  clraiiriatectrecroiastrisceomfittlhie  '  fish  character,  rendered  an  in  '47-  selves  inferior  to  none,  but  superior  to  most,  of  our  Newspaper  the  natives,  to  the  ' STYLE=superscript  0  enerale  v  of  ()  . STYLE=superscript  :11.  .  '  Contemporaries,.-o-sti  f  il,as  w  deficiencies,  .not  .  so  dot  c  e  a  d  nwpitel  perceive  c  o  ci  u  .v  r  e  p  s  e  o  r  l  i  n  'e  e  e  t  t  h  i  a  o  .n  n  g  s  mate STYLE=superscript  min  m  inisters,  difficult  and  even  painful  ;  and  a  their  ign  .  oral,ce  .ri STYLE=superscript  us  to  be  i  foreignous  our  of  langune.,  or,  at  least,  a  of  I.  cell)  in  ,  to  inzprove  in  oar  public  labout  s,  and,  by  the  honourable  assist assistspeaking  speaking assistspeaking  them,  made  them  rather  avoid,  than  seduloesly  !  i  ante  of  our  Purchasers,  will  sedulously  exert  ourselves  to  accom-  cultivate,  familiarity.  3.  ,out  in  g  under  these  restriet.ons  e+  plish  the  improvements  we  have  long  had  in  contemplation.  We  it  v  , STYLE=superscript  as  impossible  then  could  individnal  7 STYLE=superscript  y  inlience  the  re-  have,  indeed,  already  ventured  to  engage  a  Gentleman,  long  and  solutions  of  the  court  at  which  they  resided  ;  and,  though  well  approved  in  f.iterature,  to  superintend  the  Fashi:lnable  and  they  might  have  been  respected  for  their  integeity  eed  the  ,  .  Vai•iega  . STYLE=superscript  ted  Depa!  tincrtc  of  our  Publication.  1  ii  decency  of  their  manne.es,  they  were  to  Ale  to  couciliate  '  re.  ti.—No.  LA:111,  4  i  Elk  .  .4'  I  MARCH  12.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  163  ..._  --  •  --•  ...  .._  .  _  neighbours,  according  to  the  greatness  and  risk  of  their  RE  LAT'  I  '.iN  SITUATIONS  I  1  ifursuits,  the  comprehensiveness  and  splendour  of  their  --eassse --eassseprejects.  prejects. --eassseprejects.  According  to  this  principle  we  were  esteemed  iu  L  I STYLE=superscript  '1  proportion  to  the  value  of  o  ur  colonies  and  trade  ;—we  had  that  mortifying  deference  shewn  us  which  riches  obtain  ...........-  ie  Ourworld  ;—but  we  were  consulted  no  more  as  States-  TO  THE  RIGHT  HON.  SPENCER  PERCEVAL.  men,  nor  our  assistance  invoked  as  soldier  s  .  We  were  con-  'Ti.  what  the  vicious  fear,  the  virtuous  shun  !—Po  PE.  w  SlR—Without  knowing  in  what  manner  you  will  be  1 STYLE=superscript  sidered,  in  tine,  in  the  light  of  a  mere  trading  people,  pleased  to  consider  my  present  correspondence,  or,  irdecd,  whose  .  friendship  was  exclusively  cultivated  in  consequence  whether  you  will  condescend  to  bestow  upon  it  any  consi  - STYLE=superscript  of  their  money.  All  the  defects,  peculiar  to  the  over  opu-  deration,  I  avail  myself  of  the  freedom,_  common  to  my STYLE=superscript  lent  tradesman—the  mere  m  an  o  f  - STYLE=superscript  w  e  a  lth—b  e  gan  to  mans-  coun  t  r  y  men  ,  o  f  ma  king  some  use  of  public  names  to  corn cornlest  lest cornlest  themselves  in  our  language  and  conduct  ;—we  grew  municate  my  thoughts  on  public  things.  When  all  eyes  purse-proud,  haughty;  we  vaunted  our  integrity  and  ac-  are  upon  you,  Sir,  and  while  all  tongues  are  talking  of  eeirements  too  loudly,  and  evinced  too  indiscreet  a  con-  you,  concede  to  me,  obscure  as  1  remain,  the  liberty  of  tempt  for  others.  Our  indefatigable  and  insatiable  pursuit  writing  to  you.  I  cannot  avoid  feeling  rather  interested  o  of  colonies  and  of  mere  British  interests,  whilst  our  Allies  in  whel  yon  are  reported  to  be  saying;  nor  can  1  refrju  I  L. STYLE=superscript  I  were  in  the  mo  s  t  imminent  want  of  our  exertions,  raised  from  entertaining  some  apprehensions  as  to  what  you  may  '  considerable  doubts  of  our  magnanimity  as  well  as  disin-  presently  be  found  doing.  Where  inclination  is  seconded  le  terestedness;  and  we  began  to  be  considered  in  the  light  of  by  authority,  where  he  who  threathens  can  also  perform  , STYLE=superscript  at  haughty,  selfish  nation  of  traders,  unmindful  of  the  in-  his  sentiments  amount  to  something  more  consequential  [crest  of  others,  and  anxious  only  about  our  own.  Thus  than  speculations.  the  characteristic  frankness  and  generosity  of  the  British  All  the  newspapers,  contradictory  as  they  are  in  other  1  l  cearacter  was  confounded,  through  the  false  policy  and  particulars,  concur,  I  end,  in  attributing  to  you  no  ordinary  r  .  .  ,  the  petty,  contracted  views  of  Government;  and  the  opinions  on  the  subjects  of  Adultery,  and  (1  thank  plainiMr.  bravest  and  most  enterprising  nation  upon  earth  was  con-  Fuller  for  the  term  !)  Relative  Situations  !  !  Yon,  Sir,  it  ;  .t  skinned  to  consume  its  vigour  and  resources  in  a  desultory  should  seem,  not  unlike  pious  Lot  in  the  very  heart  of  So Soand  and Soand  petty  warfare  with  the  miserable  nations  of  the  East.  dom,  are  found  happily  free  from  the  sins  of  this  infidel  and  adulterous  generation.  Suffer  my  congratulations  oil  this  t  If  flattery  to  individuals  be  criminal,  it  is  treason  to  use  immunity  Front  trans  , STYLE=superscript  rression.  Rulers,  von  know  , STYLE=superscript  ought  it  eo  communities.  We  love  liberty  beyond  riches  ;  we  m,  to  be  the  terror  of  evil  deers,  anti  the  reward  of  those  who  s  i  prefer  honour  to  commerce.  When  we  know  at  the  same  do  well.  Hiehly  proper  is  it,  moreover,  that  the  onl)  ex extime  time extime  that  trade  and  opulence  cannot  be  secured  without  isting  monarch,  m STYLE=superscript  whose  life.  as  William  Cowper  wrote  in  freedom  and  noble  exertions,  we  feel  the  stronger  incline-  verse  and  as  Spencer  Pe  r  ceval  says  in  prose,  exhibits  66 STYLE=superscript  a  .  .  iiir  Lion  to  give  a  decided  preference  to  the  latter.  A  people  whose  principal  object  is  trade,  and  every  other  a  second-  lesson  to  the  land  he  !wooer  is  it,  and  truly  (rratifying,  that  such  a  Sovereieii  should  be  surrounded  by  •  ary  one,  never  retain  it  long  ;  but  are  forced  to  yield  its  servan  t  s  ,  '  who,  humbly  imitating  their  august  master,  profits,  together  with  their  independence,  to  a  state  whose  Covetens  oidy  of  a  virtuous  praise,  policy  is  more  liberal.  In  the  scale  of  happiness  we  ac-  i,,..  With  close  tiielity,  and  love  unfeign'd,  quire  nothing  by  an  accumulation  of  riches;  and  in  that  can  keep  the  matrimonial  bond  unstain'd!  i  of  power  they  arc  rather  of  secondary  than  primary  cense-  Happy  is  the  Sovereign,  therefore  !  happy  the  Ministers,  quence.  But  when  we  reflect  that  their  moral  and  politi-  •  -  and,  ot  conrse,  happy  tee  Country,  -where  such  purity  of  cal  tendency  does  not  operate  favourably  on  a  free  people,  1  l'  principle  is  combined  with  such  inflexibility  of  practice.  we  cannot  but  regret  to  behold  all  the  ener  g  ies  of  the  -  a  Away  with  that  religious  ragamuffin  Napoleon  Bonaparte,  state  verge  towards  a  doubtful  and  precarious  good.  whose  vices,  instead  of  virtues,  seem  to  constitute  his  pro-  But  fortune  has  been  kinder  and  more  provident  towards  faction  !  llow  has  he  come,  as  they  once  cried  out  of  the  us,  than  we  have  been  to  ourselves;  and,  as  if  in  conse-  Apostles,  to  turn  the  world  upside  down  !  41!&#34;'  *pence  of  our  former  virtues,  she  offers  us,  the  last  time,  Well,  sir,  you  are  now  in  the  vineyard  of  royalty  ;  and,  according  to  human  probability,  if  we  neglect  it,  an  oppor-  greatly  to  your  honour,  you  appear  determined  to  lay  trinity  of  reverting  to  the  point  we  incautiously  quitted.  A  your  axe  to  the  very  roots  of  fornication  and  adultery.  new  struggle,  more  strenuous  and  decisive  than  any  which  You  come,  indeed,  at  the  eleventh  hour;  but  it  is  better  has  occurred,  is  preparing,  or  has  already  commenced,  in  than  your  standing  idle  in  the  market-place  ;  and  there  is  favour  of  the  independence  of  the  world.  Let  us  hasten  and  still  time  enough  for  you  to  perform  your  portion  of  the  seize  the  auspicious  moment  for  recovering  the  reputation  labour,  and  earn  .your  penny  as  fairly  as  any  of  your  pre prewe  we prewe  have  iuconsiderately  forfeited,  for  reassuming  the  rack  decessors  in  employment.  we  formerly  possessed.  We  may  still  obliterate  the  recol-  Reflect,  however,  upon  what  you  may  be  about.  It  is  lection  of  our  follies  ;  and  even  efface  the  odium  and  ridi-  1  the  sou  of  the  lord  of  the  harvest  himself,  his  beloved  son,  Lille  of  our  conduct  towards  Spain.  The  intense  hatred  of  who  is  now  in  the  hands  of  his  father's  servants.  Do  not,  the  nations  of  Europe  to  France  has  absorbed  every  trace  do  not--but,  you,  Sir,  know  the  relation  of  the  of  discontent  to  this  country;  and  we  may,  without  extra-  whole  transaction  !  Twenty  eloping  lords  and  ladies  are  ordinary  efforts  and  sacrifices,  recover  the  pre-eminence  .  nothing,  compared  with  him  whom  your  resolutions  are  we  have  lost.  Active,  conciliatory,  and  intelligent  agents  s  upposed  to  affect.  x  i, STYLE=superscript  —of  a  character  the  very  reverse  of  those  we  generally  Adult  er STYLE=superscript  y  , STYLE=superscript  we STYLE=superscript  hear, STYLE=superscript  is STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  be STYLE=superscript  ca STYLE=superscript  p  itabl STYLE=superscript  y  p  unishable; STYLE=superscript  but STYLE=superscript  we STYLE=superscript  i  4,  employed  there—would  restore  our  Governmen  t, STYLE=superscript  b STYLE=superscript  o  th STYLE=superscript  a  r STYLE=superscript  e  not STYLE=superscript  y  et STYLE=superscript  told, STYLE=superscript  whether STYLE=superscript  b STYLE=superscript  y  casti STYLE=superscript  g  ation, STYLE=superscript  sequestration, STYLE=superscript  fla-, STYLE=superscript  at  Vienna  and  Petersburg!),  to  its  former  respectability  ;  gell4  t  i  o  n  ,  castration,  or  decapitation  i  While  Mr  s STYLE=superscript  .  C  lark, STYLE=superscript  and  an  army  of  seventy  thousand  men  , STYLE=superscript  either  in  Spain,  is  frightening  all  mankind,  it  seems  the  wisti  of  Mr.  Per-  ti  .  Italy,  or  Holland,  the  place  of  their  exploits  is  e STYLE=superscript  q  ual, STYLE=superscript  cev  al STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  terrif STYLE=superscript  y  all STYLE=superscript  womankind,  from  illicit  amours,  sur surprovided  provided surprovided  they  beat  the  enemy,  would  prove  t  hat STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  rep  titious STYLE=superscript  interchan STYLE=superscript  g  es, STYLE=superscript  retativesituatitifts,  and  unhallowed  14  British  Lion  has  only  been  asleep  , STYLE=superscript  and  i  s STYLE=superscript  enfeebled STYLE=superscript  ebhabitations.  Mrs.  Clarke's  example  has  been  tremens  .!f STYLE=superscript  neither  by  age  nor  sickness.  Oh  !  Nvr  r  e  the  Promethean  dourly  efficacious.  What  will  be  t  h STYLE=superscript  e  result STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  Mr. STYLE=superscript  Per Pert STYLE=superscript  t Pert  and  theft  even  at  their  risk,  practicable  in STYLE=superscript  our STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  g  e, STYLE=superscript  c  eval STYLE=superscript  '  s STYLE=superscript  p  ro STYLE=superscript  p  osed STYLE=superscript  p  enalties, STYLE=superscript  co STYLE=superscript  operating, STYLE=superscript  though STYLE=superscript  from STYLE=superscript  other STYLE=superscript  Re  would  mount  to  the  highest  Heavens  and  steal  a  spark  causes,  to  the  same  end,  time  must  discover  and  experience  ..  .  .  .  •  „  .  - STYLE=superscript  A.  ,  ,  Le.  re  ~r  i STYLE=superscript  11  4i;°  of  the  divine  flame,  to  animate  the  sluggish,  clay-cold  determine.  4  breasts  of  our  Statesmen  ;  and  would  expose  ourselves  to  the  Much  as  we  are  regretting  the  prevalence  of  adultery,  punishment  of  the  adventurous  Greek,  in  ordee  to  We  the  and  busied  as  we  are  in  devising  means  to  arrest  its  progress  11  fortuuci  of  our  country.  II  among  us,  we  du  not,  I  suspect,  wisely  enquire  into  the  it  .."
