text
"-  - STYLE=superscript  U  - STYLE=superscript  ritil)  AV  I  JA?i.  20.---:The  present  severe  weather  having  pat  a  stop  to  tke  working  of  the  Corn  hoys,  an  almost  geucral  stag stagnation  nation stagnation  has  taken  place  in  the  Mealing  Traile  we  can  therefore  ,  only  obserie  that  grey  Peas  and  Tick  Beans  are  still  declining  in  . STYLE=superscript  value,  and  that  other  articles  remalu  nearly  as  on  Monday.  and  the  court-yard.  some  time  before  fitk  roved  _  The  flames  raged  with  fury  until  six  o'clock,  in  the  apartments  of  his  Royal  Highness  the  Osi  ke  of  Cambridge,  when  the  roof  fell  .  in,  and  buried  the  coutlagratimi  within  the  walls.  The  property  consumed  belonged  to  the  Duke,  and  consisted  chiefly  of  curious  armour,  valuable  cabinet  pictures,  rarities,  &amp;c.  of  which  hardly  anything  has  heed  saved.  •  The  damage  done  by  . STYLE=superscript  the  fire  has  not  consumed  a  fourth  part  of  the  palace,  and  none  of  the  great  state  apartments,  stair-cases,  or  avenues,  are  toadi toadied.  ed. toadied.  In  the  great  court-yard,  the  damage  of  the  fire  is  only  vi visible  sible visible  in  two  windows  in  the  south-east  corner.  In  fi.ont,  to towards  wards towards  Pall-Malt,  nothing  of  the  fire  eau  be  seen,  except  the  smoke  at  a  distance  over-the  tops  of  the  buildings.  The  damage  is  on  the  west  of  Marlborough  House.  It  was  reported  that  one  of  Mrs.  Rice's  maid-servants  was  lost  in  the  conflagra conflagratien  tien conflagratien  but  such  turned  out  to  be  erroueous.  The  flames  did  not  reach  the  Queen's  drawing-room,  but  from  the  court-yard  to  the  dank  passage,  the  standing  walls  alone  are  visible.  LONDON-BRIDGE.  --  Several  below  bridge  having  their  cables  cut  - STYLE=superscript  by  the  fleeting  ice  on  Tuesday  night,  were  of  '  course  adrift  and  in  mach  contusion.  They  were  carried  with  the  inxpetuo,ity  of  the  morning  tide,  yesterday,  towards  the  bridge;  and  a  large  West  -  country  liarge  ran  with  her  bows  under  the  centre  arch,  and  her  mast  beat  for  a  long  time  with  such  violence  against  the  battlements,  as  to  loosen  the  masonry  j  fur  a  considerable  distance.  This  was  about  roar  o'clock  ill  the  'morning;  sod  the  bargemen,  for  the  . STYLE=superscript  latagioed  secerity  of  s.  a.  Wheat  Fine  ditto  -  -  94  a  91  nye  (New)  -  -  -  58  a  63  Barley  Malt  (New)  --  -  '72  a  84  White  Peas,  boilers  143  a  155  &amp;  a  s.  s.  Grey  Peas  --  7  50  a  56  Beans  (Old)  -  -  dti  a  76  Tick  ditto  (New)  -  50  1  b  6  Oats  Poland  ditto  -  -  43  a  4•  Rape  Seed  £4B  a  £53  PRICE  OF  COALS.  FRIDAY,  JAN.  20.—Rell's  Wall's  End  118;  Townley  635.--.  5  ships  at  market—l*  sold  —7  tailed-92  loaded.  PRICE  OF  STOCKS  YESTERDAY.  3  per  Cent.  Cons.  6  —5  per  Cent.  Navy  IN—lndia  Stock  1811  4  per  Cent.  Cons.  Slf  4-3  per  Cent.  (Lanced  Of—Long  Annuities  18  1-Ift—Orunium  1*  skis.—  Exch.  Bills  10,11  pas.  •„•  ma  very  great  importance  of  the  Intelligence  that  will  be  foam,  ill  THE  NATIOTIEL  REGISTER  of  this  Day,  it  is  pre presumed  sumed presumed  will  be  a  sufficient  4pology  for  the  omission  of  the  usual  Statement  of  Markets,  10.  s  I  'fiend  and  Publeast  bit  and  for  I:  B.  BELL  and  J.  DE  CAMP,  at.the  Office  of  Le  Beau  Monde;  or,  Literary  and  Favltion Favltionasl4  asl4 Favltionasl4  111241114  f.  Na  U.  Gatiscrigreskreet,  Strand:  sad  otoz  he  bad  of  all  die  Newsmen  is  'be  United  Kingdom.  P16_TB00024 mya  fine  of  5001.  to  the  King.  ausallosanseass  •  '  part  of  his  life  as  a  gardener.  Tbis  man  was  a  native  of  liere-  -  ACCIDENTS  AND7OFFENCES.  fordshire,  but  of  late  years  resided  at  Mitehatu  4  in  Surrey.  He  retained  his  faculties  to  the  last,  and  lived  during  four  reigns.  .....youpolftwe  '  •  li'viday  se'unight,  at  aeighington,  111  r.  Thomas  Hodgson,  RMING  FIRE  AT  ST.  JAMES'S'  PALACE.  osged  16;  wlso,.thetugh  only  a  cobler,  died  possessed  of  property  two  o'clock  this  morning,  ,as  a  'Working  woman  worth  1001.  peiannuin.  ly  the  Royal  Palace  at  St.  James's.  she  discovered  Lately,  at  Tinsley  Toll  Bac,  near  Rotherham,  at  the  advanced  ;ht  in  one  of  the  rooms  Which  turned  out  to  be  in  •  age  of  MI  yews,  Atm  Addy.  She  retained  her  mental  faculties  In  of  Mrs.  Rice,  one  rooms,  Which  rriacesses  droll%  14)  thg  la  st  ,  tsed  amiable  to  read  itt  her  Dithia  (naafi  Km  t)  wills  s  lets  aloineou'a  l STYLE=superscript  iter,  'llatites  isocued  from  ..tbe_sy  us*  ,Met  gleei  , STYLE=superscript  e4..  Tf  se  -4400er-  0!  40  41•&lt;*wkilliemPte  Or  advaattd  &amp;inn  was  gives.  The  sentinels  mad  Wien  oa  duty  ;  of  16Q  'yeah:  tiogaway  part  of  the  (mimes,  and  Ow  eagiaes  ed  ;  hut  from  the  situation  of  that  part  of  the  pa-  N  ONDO  MAILX.ETS.  •  ..  vhich  was  in  the  centre,  betwixt  the  dark  passage  yard,  on  the  eastern  side  of  the  building,  ii  was  M:=ll=  •  .  ore  the  exertious  of  the  fit  emen  proved  beneficial.  CORN  EXCHANGE.  ...  ..  .  .  P16_TB00025 t  ,  It  ,  ,  mom"
