text
"TRH  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  amounted  only  to  6000.  In  the  same  style  of  impudent..  exaggeration  it  is  said,  that  this  very  Duke  of  ISTRIA  set  oil  ou  the  6th  for  Guadalaxara,  and  scoured  the  whole  road  from  Saragossa  and  Valencia.  All  this  took  place  in  the  course  of  two  days;  though  the  former  is  200  miles  to  the  N,  K.  of  Madrid,  and  the  latter,  140  miles  east  of  that  city.  The  18111  Bulletin,  dated  Dec.  14th,  two  days  after  the  former,  had  been  published,  does  out  advert  to  a  single  military  occurrence;  but  amuses  the  reader  with  the  most  envenomed  abuse  of  two  members  of  the  Supreme  Junta,  and  with  commiseration  for  the  state  of  dependence  the  ma majority  jority majority  of  that  respectable  Body  was  kept  by  these  obuoxious  members,  and  by  the  populace.  Those  two  illustrious  Pa Patriots,  triots, Patriots,  who  have  so  much  irritated  the  spleen,  and  pro provoked  voked provoked  the  scurrilous  abuse  of  BONAPARTE,  were  deputed  by  the  Juntas  of  Seville  and  Saragossa,  or  Arragon,  as  representatives  to  the  Supreme  or  central  Junta.  The  very  circumstance  of  their  having  been  chosen  by  the  Juntas  of  two  provinces,  which  have  displayed  such  zeal  and  enthusiasm  in  the  cause,  is  a  presumPtive  proof  that  they  arc  men  of  no  common  character,  and  entitle  them  to  the  honour  of  being  cordially  hated  by  the  detestable  tyrant.  For  the  future  we  will  set  down  those  two  mem members,  bers, members,  as  persons  from  whose  services  and  patriotism  their  country  has  to  expect  the  greatest  benefits.  This  Bulletin  captains  helidesa  trifling  misrepresentation,  or  rather  lie,  whets  the  writer  As  soon  as  it  was  known  that  the  Emezaost  was  at  Burgos,  and  that  he  would  soon  be  at  Madrid,  they  (the.  4uata)  published  a  declaration  of  war  against  France,  full  of  Ally  and  the  most  insulting  lan 'language.'  The  fellow  had  not  the  courage  to  speak  the  .  truth  1  The  Junta  published  no  declaration  of  war;  fur  !hat  was  long  before  declared;  but  they  bound  themselves  by  the  most  soleroo  oath  never  to  listen  to  any  overtures.of  peace,  which  did  not  establish  as  principle,  the  restitution  of  their  beloved  FERDINAND,  aed  the  integrity  of  the  Spanish  empire.  This  was  too  sublime  a  proof  of  devotion  to  their  country,  and  evinced  too  marked  a  determination  to  resist  his  usurpation,  to  be  made  known  to  his  good  city  of  Paris.  Though  the  tyrant  is  not  insulted  by  the  display  of  such  virtues  on  the  part  of  his  loving  subjects,  he  feels,  nevertheless,  some  reluctance  to  re remind  mind remind  them,  how  sunk,  how  lost  they  are.  Ile  has  been  likewise  guilty  of  a  degree  of  inconsistency  and  imprudence  we  should  not  have  expected  from  the  wary  ruffian.  In  venting  his  rancour  agaiust  Count  TILLY  he  has  the  audacity  to  use  the  word  jacohin  ;  forgetting  that  the  very  name  must  remind  the  Parisians  of  the  bloody  and  ferocious  part  he  acted  in  17  .  94,  when  he  headed  the  jacobins  against  the  sections.  He  seemed  also  to  forget  that  his  brother  Lucia&#34;'  was  a  most  violent  Jacobin  ;  and  that  a  petty  inn innkeeper  keeper innkeeper  refused  him  his  daughter,  with  a  portion  of  80/.  on  that  very  account;  and  the  imperial  diadem  must  have  weakened  his  memory  very  much,  or  the  son  of  a  petty pettyfogging  fogging pettyfogging  Corsican  attorney  would  not  have-the  effrontery  to  reproach  LORENZO  C&amp;Lvo  with  being  a  grocer  •f  Sa Saragossa.  ragossa. Saragossa.  The  Bulletin  concludes  with  some  sportive  illusions  to  the  cowardice  of  our  soldiers,  who  are  re represented  presented represented  to  have  run  away  at  the  approach  of  the  French,  and  to  have  mounted  their  wooden  horses,  (their  ships,  we  suppose.)  What  mind  the  savage  fellow  must  have,  when,  in  the  midst  of  the  carnage  and  horror  that  snrrcuud  him,  be  feels.an  iacpuation  to  indulge  in  the  grossest  witticisms!  The  Nineteenth  Bulletin  begins  with  the  surrender  of  Bolas  ;  and  la  as  replete  as  the  former  with  inrectioes  against  the  Supreme  Junta,  with  this  difference,  thak  attacked  en  masse;  whereas  in  the  former  only  CAM)  )  and  Count  MA  I'  are  exposed  to  his  /mind  , STYLE=superscript  Assembly  is  already  become  an  object  o'  with  all  If  that  be  the  sensation  this  body  excite  in  Europe,  we  are  convinced  at  least  no  objects  of  his  contempt,  but  of  his  fear  and  FLORIDA  BLANCA  is  Stated  to  have  been  a  re  Spain  :  he  is  now  ashamed  of  the  dikhonour  he  h.  upon  his  old  age.  The  inconsistent  villain  I  A  few  he  represented  this  venerable  Statesman  as  sold  to  and  now  he  describes  him  to  .have  been  a  rea  Spain.  These  Bulletins  are  excellent  records  of  and  frenzy  which  torture  and  distract  his  disa  feelings.  However,  there  is  a  meaning  in  his  made  he  will  not  trouble  himself  much  . STYLE=superscript  about  the  inconsi  his  conduct,.  if  he  can  only  excite  some  suspicion  that  illustrious  Patriot.  He  finishes  this  Bulletin  observations  on  the  fineness  of  the  weather,  and  to  avail  himself  of  it,  by  remaining  in  the  ca  league  from  Madrid.  He  seems  to  feel  little  inch  confide  his  august  person  to  the  care  of  its  inhabii  Besides  the  Bulletins,  there  are  some  addition  ments.  In  one  of  these  he  grants  a  general  pard  the  exception  of  the  Duke  del  INFANTADO,  CEVA'  a  few  others;  whose  houses  he  ordered  in  the  meo  be  gutted.  The  members  of  the  Council  of  Castile  tcribecl  as  cowards,  and  unworthy  of  being  the  magistrates  of  a  great  nation.  Feudal  rights  and  the  Inquisition  are  abolished  ;  and  he  reduces  the  convents  to  one-third  of  their  present  number.  Apprehensive,  however,  that  his  projected  reform  might  have  no  effect  in  conquering  the  de•  testation  of  the  natives,  he  concludes  with  the  fulminating  If  all  my  efforts  , STYLE=superscript  ba  useless,  awl!  Grey  .do  not  merit  my  confidence,  it  will  only  remain  for  me  to  treat  4'  you  as  conquered  provinces,  and  to  piaci*•  my  brother  ox  44 STYLE=superscript  another  throne.  I  will  then  put  the  Crown  of  Spain  on.  my  own  head,  and  I  will  cause  it  to  be  respected  by  the  wicked,  for  God  has  given  me  strength  'and  resolution  to  surmount  all  obstacles.'t  Given  in  oiir  peperial  Camp  at  Madrid,  Dec.  Vb.  (Signed)  •!  N.teozzert.'‘  •  The  Diana  frigate  has  arrived  from  Corunna  I  She  ha  d  brought  a  regular  series  of  Spanish  papers,  dated  the  30th  ult.  The  intelligence  they  contain  is  very  interesting.  It  appears  that  the  southern  army  had  established  its  head-quarters  at  the  Sierra  Morena,  whither  the  troops  which  had  been  dispersed  in  various  directions,  were  ad.:  vancing.  Castanos  was  in  the  neighbourhood  of  Madrid  t  and  General  Pena  had  advanced  to  the  Capital,  with  a  con considerable  siderable considerable  corps  of  Infantry  and  Cavalry  ;  of  the  surrender  of  which  the  Central  Junta  had  received  no  advice  they,  thought,  on  the  contrary,  after  having  made  the  most  diligent  inquiry,  tlAt  it  still  resisted  the  entrcmce  of  the  enemy,  The  Junta  of  Gallicia  had  received  advice,  dated  Trust•  illo,  the  Bth  Dec.  from  their  Deputy  of  the  Central.  Junta,  stating  that  the  Spaniards  had  possessed  themselves  of  Bar Barcelona.  celona. Barcelona.  If  this  account  were  true,  it  would  more  than  compensate  the  loss  cf  the  Capital.  It  is  a  circumstance  worthy  of  serious  attention,  that  the  enemy  have  not  been  -  able  to  relieve  their  garrison  in  that  important  fortress.'  We  consider  it  as  the  modt  conclusive  proof  that  their  /  force  iu  the  Pcaiusult►  is  not  so  great  as  is  rerosented.  P10_TB00006 JAN.  0,  at  they  are  y  Lonsszo  s  Df  contempt  s  illustrious  ist,  they  are  detestation.  cal  man  of  has  broughs  ew  days  ago  to  England  ;  real  man  of  of  the  rage  lisappointed  sadness;  for  , STYLE=superscript  usistency  of  iola  against  n  with  soma  d  his  desire  country  one  Iclination  to  bitants.  tional  docu.  ardtin,  with  AL1,06,  and  lean  time  to  stile  are  de-  magistrates  luisition  are  )no-third  of  that  his  ha*:  ra  elish  Ask—  P10_TB00007"
