text
"itittrkiflAgAL  itEGl§Fttit.  •  lidroistage.  Impatience  c.in  only  serve  to  diva&amp;  men's  talads.  sod  t•  occaslmt  railehiefs  %Mich  may  !perhaps  be  letesedlahle  The  said  Provisional  Chief,  the  Royal  Acevedo,  and  the  other  covearria;  Authorities,  give  yog  every  assareace  that  eft  be  wished  for.  44 STYLE=superscript  Ife.rice,  Sept.  16,180&amp;  By  command  Of  his  Excellency  the  President,  aft  the  Royal  Aeuerdo,  the  most  Illustrious  Seignor  the  Ars4h Ars4hbibhop,  bibhop, Ars4hbibhop,  and  another  Authorities.  46 STYLE=superscript  FRANCISCO  AMLRICA.  lAN.  15.  FROM  THE  AMERICAN  PAPERS.  HOUSE  OF  REPRESENTATIVES,  Nov.  17.  Mr.  Macon  moved  the  foilowipg  Recolutions:—  Resolved.  That  the  Committee  appointed  on  that  part  of  the  Presideneb  Message  which  relates  to  our  foreign  relations,  be  in intrur  trur intrur  ted  to  enquire  into  the  expediency  of  excludingby  law  from  .  lie  ports,  harbours,  and  waters  of  the  United  States,  all  triOd  ships  and  vessels  belonging  to  any  of  the  Belligerent  Powers,  having  in  force  orders  or  decrees  violating  the  lawful  commerce  of  the  United  States  as  a  nation.  Resolved,  That  the  same  Conunittee  be  instructed  to  enquire  into  the  f  •  ped  iency  of  prohibiting,  bs  law  the  admission  in►u  the  ports,  harbours,  and  waters  of  the  United  States,  an)  . STYLE=superscript  fillip  or  vessel  belonging  to  or  coming  from  any  place  in  the  possession  of  the  above  mentioned  Powers.  and  also  the  importation  ,of  any  goods,  wares,  and  merchandize,  the  growth,  produce,  and  manu manufacture  facture manufacture  of  the  dominions  of  any  of  the  said  Powers.  Resolved,,  That  the  same  Committee  be  instructed  to  enquire  into  the  expediency  of  amending  the  .Act  laying  an  embargo,  and  the  several  Acts  supple:nental  and  additional  therein.  The  first  and  second  Resolutions  offered  by  Mr.  Macon  were  agreed  to  without  a  di%  isiou..—The  third  was  ordered  to  lie  on  the  table.—Ayes  78.  NOV.  21.—The  Committee,  to  whom  was  referred  so  much  of  the  President's  Message  as  relates  to  foreign  Powers,  made  their  Report.  They  concluded  by  proposing  the  following  Resolutions:  The  Committee  respectfully  submit  the  following  Reso Resolutions:—  lutions:— Resolutions:—  1.  Resolved,  That  the  United  Stategeannot,  without  a  sacrifice  of  their  rights,  honour,  and  independence,  submit  to  the  late  Edicts  of  Carat  Britain  and  France.  2.  Resolved,  That  it  is  expedient  to  prohibit  by  law  the  a&amp;  mission  into  the  ports  and  harbours  of  the  United  States  of  all  public  or  private,  armed  or  unarmed  ships  or  vessels  belonging  to  Great  Britain  or  France,  or  to  any  other  of  the  Belligerent  l'owers  having  in  force  Orders  or  Decrees  violating  the  lawful  commerce  and  neutral  rights  of  the  United  States;  and  also  the  Importation  of  any  goods,  wares,  or  merchandize,  the  growth,  produce,  or  manufacture  of  the  dominions  of  any  of  the  said  Powers,  or  imported  frontally  place  in  the  possession  of  either.  3.  Resolved,  That  measures  ought  to  be  immediately  taken  for  placing  the  country  in  a  more  complete  state  of  defence."
