text
"THE  NATIONAL  REG-IMO.  .  x  25  LETTER  FROM  CHAMPAGNY,  MINISTER  OF  STATE  TO  DONA.-  TAItTE,  DATED  PARIS  )  DEC.  7.  66 STYLE=superscript  Throughwli  all  the  Austrian  dominions  the  utmost  activity  continues  to  tie  t.isplayed,  with  regard  to  the  new  organization  of  the  militia,  which  seems  to  excite  strong  apprehensions  in  the  breast  of  the  King  of  Saxony  and  Duke  of  Warsaw.  in  Munich  es;  uneasiness  is  entertained  on  this  subject,  because  no  move movements  ments movements  are  observable  among  the  Austrian  troops:  Ali  Pacha  is  daily  drawing  more  closely  the  ties  of  friendship  with  the  English,  but  being  apprehensive  of  some  rigorous  measures  on  the  part  of  the  Turkish  Government,  he  has  sent  his  treasure  to  a  place  of  safety.  Count  Romanzoff  has  dispatched  a  Courier  to  Moldavia.  I  have  availed  myself  of  this  opportunity  to  send  some  Bulletins  to  Constantinople,  and  have  also  ordered  them  to  be  distributed  on  the  road  thither.  The  Ottoman  Ambassador  has  postponed  dispatching  a  Courier  to  Constantinople,  until  intelligence  shall  have  been  received  of  your  Majesty's  arrival  in  ANOTHER  LETTER  FROM  THE  MINISTER  OF  POLICE  TO  BON  AFARTE,  DATED  PARIS,  DEC.  8,  1808.  -  -  -  -  -  In  obedience  to  your  Majesty's  orders,  I  have  caused  the  articles  relative  to  Sicily  to  he  successively  inserted  in  the  Dutch  and  German  Gazettes,  which  will  he  repeated  in  the  French  Papers  ;  but  1  have  given  the  most  positive  orders  that  no  particulars  of  that  expedition  shall  he  mentioned,  lest  they  should  rouse  the  enemy's  attention.  I  inform  your  Majesty  that  The  Frankfurt  Gazcileer  seem:  , STYLE=superscript  to  be  much  disaffected,  since  it  became  necessary  to  adopt  strong  measures  in  order  to  compel  him  to  insert  the  article  touching  Spain.  Nor  is  the  city  better  disposed  ;  the  Anglomany  which  prevails  in  Frankfort  is  won wonderful.  derful. wonderful.  It  is  from  thence  that  bad  news  are  spread  all  along  the  left  banks  of  the  ----  -  A  Letter  from  the  French  Ambassador  in  Munich,  M.  Otto,  to  the  French  Minister  of  Stale,  26th  of  November,  ISOB,  contains  the  following  passages:  '•  The  Austrians  continue  to  make  entrenchments  in  Carinthea  a  great  number  of  peasant  4  are  employed  in  the  defiles  of  Dufen Dufenstein,  stein, Dufenstein,  Itastadt,  Muntendorf,  anti  Lueg.  We  are  here  convinced,  that  the  Court  of  V  ieana  intemls  to  carry  the  plan  of  the  new  organization  of  the  militia  into  execution  to  its  full  ex:._lll,  and  io  derive  greiaer  ad  vantago  from  this  measure,  than  were  at  first  .expected.  Bat  a  want  of  principle  seems  still  to  prevail,  and  the  armies  are  encreased  at  the  e  x  pence  of  agriculture  and  in industry.  dustry. industry.  The  emissaries  who  have  been  sent  into  different  parts  of  Austria  report,  that  no  movements  of  any  consequence  have  hitherto  taken  place  among  the  troops.  The  Marquis  of  Campo  Chiaro  is  waiting  here  for  fresh  .orders,  and  it  appears  that  the  accession  of  his  Majesty  King  Joachim  to  the  throne  of  Naples,  has  been  made  known  to  the  'Court  of  Vienna  much  later  than  had  been  supposed,  for  which  .reason  the  Above  Minister  cannot  proceed  to  that  capital,  until  the  Court  has  returned  an  Letters  from  Cadiz  slate,  that  the  Junta  at  Seville  had  sent  an  Envoy  to  the  King  of  Morocco,  to  procure  a  supply  of  horses,  find  that  the  request  was  to  1w  complied  with,  on  condition  .that  the  Spanish  Government  would  agree  to  evacuate  and  demolish  all  the  forts  held  by  their  troops  in  Africa.  All  property  belouging  to  the  natives  of  counties  under  the  dominion  of  France  hail  been  con  :.sated,  by  order  of  the  Junta.  With  respect  to  the  defence  of  Cadiz,  should  the  attack  of  the  enemy  take  place,  strong  hopes  are  entertained  that  it  would  call  forth  the  most  ardent  loyalty.  About  a  mile  and  a  half'  beyond  the  city,  near  the  narrowest  part  of  the  Peninsula  on  which  it  stands  , STYLE=superscript  a  fort  was  constructing  swhich  will  completely  con  - STYLE=superscript  unpaid  the  only  approach  to  the  place  by  land;  and  this  fort  will  be  additionally  strength strength.eited  .eited strength.eited  by  a  ditch,  uniting  the  sea  without  to  the  harbour  with within,  in, within,  by  cutting  the  4sle  of  Leon  in  two.  The  works  for  thi  s  purpose  were  superintended  by  Colonel  Hollowell,  of  [been_  gineers,  lately  arrived  Trom  Gibraltar.  It,  was,  however,  ap apprehended,  prehended, apprehended,  that  the  greatest  difficulty  would  arise  from  the  'want  of  water.  Cadiz  is  of  destitute  of  water,  ex except  cept except  what  is  caught  in  tanks  on  the  tops  or  the  houses  ;  4nd  the  deficiency  - STYLE=superscript  is  usually  s  from  Port  St.  Mary,  on  the  main  land,  north-east  of  the  bay  ;  and  though  there  are  no  heights  that  overlook  the  city,  if  the  French  obtain  possession  of  the  northern  shores  of  the  bay,  which  all  the  ttn.  strong  works  of  Cadiz  cannot  prevent,  they  will,  it  is  feared,  not  only  cut  off  the  supply  of  water  from  Port  St.  Mary,  but  greatly  annoy  all  shipping  entering  the  har harbour,  bour, harbour,  if  not  totally  obstruct  the  passage.  An  alarming  dissatisfaction  unfortunately  prevails  in  Jamaica.  We  are  sorry  to  say  it  is  universal  ;  and  the  freeholders  and  inhabitants  .  of  almost  every  parish,  which  had  been  convened  on  the  occasion,  have  sanctioned  the  proceedings  of  the  House  of  Assembly.  The  tone  of  their  resolutions  is  spirited  and  firm.  They  claim  for  their  re representatives  presentatives representatives  the  full  exercise  of  the  rights  possessed  by  the  British  House  of  Commons,  and  . STYLE=superscript  seem  determined  to  main maintain  tain maintain  them.  Four  more  American  Embargo-breakers  are  arrived  at  Liverpool.  Their  names,  as  stated  at  Lloyd's,  are  the  Rover,  Ambition,  Rolla,  and  Carmelite.  They  arc  said  to  have  sailed  from  New  Jersey,  but  they  are  in  reality  from  New  York,  and  constitute  only  a  part  of  the  number  that  effected  their  escape  from  that  port,  and  are  already  known  to  have  reached  British  ports.  They  are  freighted  with  a  considerable  quantity  of  cotton,  and  their  arrival  has  had  the  effect  of  materially  lowering  the  price  of  that  article,  both  in  the  London  and  Liverpool  markets.  The  samples  which,  but  a  short  time  before,  were  sold  at  3c.  3d.  have  fallen  to  2s.  6d.  Another  sort,  called  Bouds,  which  had  been  at  2s.  Sd.  and  2s.  6d.  did  not  fetch  at  Liverpool  2s-.  These  vessels  bring  no  other  intelligence  than  the  deter determination  mination determination  of  the  Merchants  of  New  England  to  refuse  sub submission  mission submission  to  the  Non-Intercourse  Bill.  This  determination  had,  according  to  our  Liverpool  letters,  been  openly  ex expressed,  pressed, expressed,  at  the  risk  of  absolute  separation  from  the  Union,  sooner  than  relinquish  their  commercial  pursuits.  A  curi curious  ous curious  fact  has  come  within  our  knowledge,  which  proves  at  least  that  this  Embargo-breaking  can  have  been  no  very  sudden  or  unpremeditated  act  :  viz.  these  four  vessels,  as  well  as  others  yet  to  come,  were  all  insured  at  Lloyd's  by  a  leilding  American  house  in  the  city.  The  following  Letter  refers  to  the  Expedition  now  fitting  out  at  Cork  :  CORK  ,  Eras.  10.---On  Thursday  se'nnight,  the  wind  having  shifted  to  the  Eastward,  orders  were  issued  for  the  immediate  re-embarkation  of  such  of  the  troops,  recently  returned  front  Spain.  as  were  in  a  condition  for  duty.  Such  was  the  activity  used  on  the  occasion,  that  by  noon  a  considerable  part  of  them  had  embarked  ;  the  wind,  however,  then  freshened  to  such  a  de degree  gree degree  as  to  suspend  the  service,  and  at  five  o'clock  had  increased  to  a  heavy  gale.  Ceuta  is  supposed  to  be  the  place  of  their  des destination.'  tination.' destination.'  We  are  authorised  to  state  that  the  Hope  Insurance  Com Company  pany Company  has  no  connection  whatever  with  the  intended  Cattle  . STYLE=superscript  Life  Insurance  Company.  Monday,  a  few  minutes  before  one  o'clock,  his  Majesty  atrivel  at  the  Queen's  Palace,  from  Windsor.  His  Majesty  travelled  by  Egham,  and  the  same  road  which  he  took  last  week,  the  regular  roads  being  still  not  passable.  About  half-past  two  o'clock.  his  Majesty  held  a  private'  Levee,  which  was  attended  by  the  Great  Officers  of  State,  the  Ministers,  &amp;e.  Very  few  presentations  took  place.  His  Majesty  held  a  Privy  Council,  at  which  the  Recorder  of  London  attended,  and  made  his  Report  of  the  Cons  icts  capitally  convicted  at  the  last  Sessions  in  the  Old  ;  when  we  understand  the  man  from  Birmingham,  for  uttering  forged  Bank  notes,  and  the  woman  for  forging  seamen'h  certificates  of  births,  wills,  &amp;c.  were  ordered  for  execution  next  Wedoe,ilay.  Soon  after  six  o'clock,  his  Majesty  set  off  on  his  return  to  IVindsor.  The  Court  of  Common  Council  of  the  City  of  London.  have  adopted  the  following  Resolutions  :  That  no  Member  of  the  Court  who  holds  any  place  or  appoint appointment  ment appointment  under  Government,  from  which  he  derives  an  emolument,  or  who  receives  any  income,  salerv,  or  allowance  out  of  the  public  money,  except  such  Members  as  hold  a  commission  in  either  of  the  two  regiments  of  London  Militia,  shall  be  eligible  to  serve  upon  any  Committee  or  Commission  appointed  by  the  Court.  •  In  the  Court  of  Common  Pleas  yesterday  Mr.  Finnerty  obtained  a  verdict  and  one  shilling  damages  against  Mr.  Tipper  the  bookseller  for  a  libel  plaintiff  published  in  the  Satirist,  an  obscure  monthly  publication.  P14_TB00013 e  1  16 STYLE=superscript  y  .  •"
