text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  the  conkderates;  to  intimidate  them  with  the  prospect  of  deserved  punishment  ;  and  above  ail,  to  throw  out  a  half  hint  that  BUON.ipARTE  is  not  unacquainted  with  proposals  made  then%  on  the  part  of  Austria.  An  important  conclusion  we  may,  however,  dr::w  from  this  lettei-;  the  subjects  of  ti  confederate  Princes  3'C  disposed  to  rise  ::gainst  their  Governments  in  favour  of  Austria.  T;  :s  we  long  since  expected.  The  two  kingly  Inc:l:hers  the  league  hale  been  always  obaoxious:to  their  suirj::cts—aas  aria  and  Wur Wurtemberg  temberg Wurtemberg  ;  the  former  oa  account  of  religious  innovations  disagieea  to  the  great  majority  of  the  Bavarians;  the  latter  on  account  of  his  private  character,  as  well  as  system  of  Go Government;  vernment; Government;  he  is  a  tyrannic  father,  and  a  tyrannic  regent.  The  former  causes  of  discon  tent  arc  now  ulcered,in  consequence  of  the  conseriptioa  and  the  lons  of  German  independence,  into  inveterate  abhorrence  of  their  Sovereigns.  The  venerable  grand  Duke  of  BAnEN,  respectable  for  his  private  virtues,  is  converted  into  a  mere  cypher,  since  the  marriage  of  his  grandson  with  a  niece  of  ad.  BONAPARTE.  If  he  had  even  the  power  and  the  will  to  act  against  Austria,  his  means  are  extremely  limited  and  precarious.  The  greater  part  of  of  his  territofy  consists  of  provinces,  which  a  few  years  belo!Ked  to  the  House  of  Austria.  The  same  remark  is  true  with  regard  to  Bavaria,  Wurtemberg  and  the  other  members  of  the  Rhenish  confederacy—The  acquired  pro proinces,  inces, proinces,  which  surpass  in  size  their  ancient  possessions,  have  not  forgot  their  antient  attachments,  and  will  display  :t  marked  reluctance  to  co-operate  in  the  %ICUS  of  their  new  re:;ents.  The  same  observation  is  true  with  regard  to  W•stultalia,  to  flanover,  and  even  to  Saxony  - STYLE=superscript  -They  detest  the  Lew  order  of  things.  The  former  impressions,  the  Old  attachments,  have  acquired  vigour  from  adversity  ;  rand  they  look  up  to  the  success  of  Austria,  fur  the  restora restoration  tion restoration  of  w  hat  they  so  ardently  desire.  N'S'e  are  al.()  informed,  that  the  most  serious  differences  exi*t  het  w(eli  :`;;.i.p314  . STYLE=superscript  011,a1  1 STYLE=superscript  King,  Louis  or  INIAnd;  in  t  enTiegoesoce  %1  lic  it  a  radical  uhaa;e  in  the  - STYLE=superscript  I)otch  Goverattieat  iy  liturgy  tiilie  play(  11/11,.11'  L't  'I7IE  BOOK?  !  inv  is,  that  mine  Adversary  bud  written  A  Bonk  —The  Book  of  .10?),  Ch.  31,  i%  nb.  Tlt  rr•rtrrsre  or•  f;;?..1:  .  (  ' STYLE=superscript  No  r  Iti  f.4nE  prittrr.  Siv,,,—Unknown  thoo4h  :  - STYLE=superscript  our  ppoduclion  , STYLE=superscript  -entarall.  , STYLE=superscript  is,  frig  curious  as  are  the  flets  which  it  details,  1  shall  not,  at  myself  at  liberty  to  amuse  my  readers  Wit  h  merry  descants  on  a  nation's  woes  r  Aniun,T,  the  fatal  events  of  theselast  years,  amidst  the  ex ext  t ext  k  nordnynry  circumstances  and  characters  snecessiyely  eli elithere  there elithere  exist  very  few  personnes,  whether  ;IR  it  re reie•e:•ts  ie•e:•ts reie•e:•ts  the  comninnity  or  the  individualou  t  justiy  demanding  n'tiention,  ;...s  him  to  whom  I  now  claim  the  honour  of  ad adcli-essin4  cli-essin4 adcli-essin4  miself.  You,  sir,  are  alike  d;stinguished  in  the  s:nate  anfi  in  the  cabinet  ;  but  it  SCCITIS  my  lot  to  address  Noo,  for  the  first  time,  in  the  capacity  which  alone  %on  are  not  anxious  of  a  vor.ing.  it  is  for  Inc  to  addeess  you,  Sir,  a  4  the  NV  !IKE:  OF  •  t  BOOK  1'  Your  con:lni,q;  exhibits  a  pbenoniNion  i  n  au  th  or  _  Pllntin4  alter  eminence,  a%  aricions  of  ambition.  s  c  !  lor  e  fotuzil  the  wriOr,  who,  havinc  ►perfected  rut!ritorions  produetion,  one  likely  to  identify  him  Nrith  posterity,  woalii  shrink  from  fame,  anxious  only  to  ,  fore  lo  the  reputation  of  which  othees  are  so  emulous?  rca,•;oes  rift  ;fit  •S!)  to  act  ?  Your  work  tin,l,  in  itsdf  creditable  to  your  character,  whit  its  contents  ere  (!ss,....atialty  inter-sting  to  your  compatriots  and  contemporariei.  It  relates  to  persoaages  the  most  inns innstr.ious,  tr.ious, innstr.ious,  and  to  occurrences  the  most  memorable;  and  it  .develcpes  transactions  the  most  extraordinary.  It  •  was  undertaken  by  von  indenendently,  pros  e  cuted  by  sou  zea zeabusty,  busty, zeabusty,  aisd  aecomplishe  i STYLE=superscript  d  by  'yon  successfully  1  Why  is  it  condemned  by  you  to  obscurity  1  Such  wor:  licit  y  ;  they  should  not  be  stifled  in  the  af  or  meetly  suffered  to  crawl  into  the  world.  Sir!  your  diffidence  will,  as  it  ought,  b(  &amp;Ey  cannot  consent  to  be  deprive&amp;  of  th  labours.  It  will  prove  true  of  your  .  7 STYLE=superscript  11emt  :14  Pope  declared  of  Johnson's  London,'  t  the  agthar  is,  ''  SCIII  soon  be  deterre  loive:  to  escape,  from  the  voice  of  fa  liook  that  redounds  equally  to  the  p  head  and  heart  ;  or,  at.  least,  do  not  inter'  circulat  ion.  Whik,  superior  to  ofic  . STYLE=superscript  :  2  trammels,  to  detect  oirences  anti  visit  offenders,  folio  irtit  of  discovery  with  the  eN  . STYLE=superscript  :lmple  of  pun  I  , STYLE=superscript  i;  are  thus  commendr  , STYLE=superscript  bly  employed,  g  •,.-.r  served  result  of  all  your  researches;  a  as  well  as  succeeding  generations,  of  yor  grateful  countrymen,  the  most  importa,  May  it  not  be  even  elif::i!de  to  impart  auti  tion,  when,  as  in  the  event  of  Mrs.  Clarke  ther  Mr.  Wardle  might  no?;:us  vulva,  cb'  Is  it  in  Crane-court,  however,  that  import,  and  affecting  so  many  illustrio  ought  to  be  deposited  ?  And,  is  the  .llorni.  , STYLE=superscript  .per  medium  for  clam?  in  certain  straw  A  nook  ?'  flow  often,  to  adopt  the.  remedy  turn  out  to  be  worse  than  the  diste  Never,  if  rightly  I  discern,  was  A  Bo:  mentous  application,  of  more  eventual  con  the  book  here  introduced  to  public  noti.  nevertheless,  from  some  strange  cause,  of  disposition.  •  declines  publicity  altogether.  this.  Not  only  does  lie  forego  his  legitim  to  celebrity,  he  relinquishes,  it  seems,  the  Proposed  to  accomplish,  and  this  when  it  i.  him  power.  1%  there  not  something  mystcri  reeding,  or,  rather,  recvdingi  •  41%0  `Cowper,  writer  a  Na  Can  •.4  ou  Sir,  as  Writer  of  Book'  might  caficieOtiv  d,  expl.  plied,  When  during  SOlne  recent  Parliatnei  tions,  it  is  stated,  oddly  enough,  by  Mr.  upon  Ws  application  for  'Ecclesiastical  Prefe  Clarke  observed  that  the  Duke  of  Portland'  of  late,  in  Church  Preferment  ;  because  t  zrossed  !ix  Citureh  Patranage  c'emi  byrC  rewlirea.  Stranze,  howeter,,  it  entirely  escaped,  if  N.,*  may  trust  to  the.  Commons,  the  uNitnadyursion  ()four  representatives.  March  16,  1809.  IMMO.  An  alarming  accident  occurred  on  Thursday.night.  to.  Mn.e  Arley,  of  Charlotte-street,  Mary-le-1)1)one,  occasioned  by  her  clothes  taking  tire.  She  had  returned  from  the  Opera•house,  accompanied  by  her  son  and  three  daughters,  the  latter  of  whom  were  in  the  heft.  room  when  the  accident  happened.  The  back  part  of  her  dress  was  drawn  into  the  fire  by  the  draft  of  the  '  rhimnev,  and  being  of  a  light  substance,  she  was  in  a  moment  in  a  Wave.  An  alarto  was  itumediately  spread  through  the  house,  httt  t!le  bed-curtains  hail  taken  fire  before  any  of  the  servants  could  get  up  stairs,  and  the  roam  was  quite  destroyed.  Mrs.  Arley  was  saved  by  the  exertions  of  her  eldest  daughter,  but  is  . STYLE=superscript  much  burnt.  P16_TB00014 MARC!!  19  rks  deserve  Let  of  their  birth,  Pe  defeated.  So-  le  result  of  your  oirs  jour  Scrrir,  that  - STYLE=superscript  Struggle  no  line.  A  vo  , STYLE=superscript  ,v  th  e  prais^  of  your  rfere  to  arrest  its  you  determine,  'wing  up  the  be-  tisiu  :lye  Ls,  Sir,  the  and  confer  on  us  cur  admiring  and  int  obligations.  horised  itiforma-  e's  Letters,  ano-  Aain  it  surrepti-  Book'  of  august  :ms  'ng  Post  the  pro-  'd  copies  of  such  %dagn,  does  the'  'mper  !  ok'  of  more  mo-  asequence,  than  ice.  Its  author,  )r  peculiarity  of  r.  lie  outdoes  rate  pretentious  e  object  he  first  is  firmly  within  rious  in  this  pro-  arrative.—True.  -  whose  contents  laid  what  is  itn-  'Mary  Examina..  Donovan,  that,  crments,  MIS  ilad  no  interest  the  Q**** STYLE=superscript  en-  Explanation  as  is  this  point,  siteports  of  the  sentatives.  lIQZfO.  lay  n'wht  .  to.  Mr..  P16_TB00015 .  ..  ..............  ......  __._  ...  ._  ,  ......  ipacit)  which  alone  )no  are  il  ablave  . STYLE=superscript  :  An  alario  was  it'umediately  spread  through  the  house,  for  me  to  addeess  you,  Sir,  1  hut  t!le  bed-curtains  hail  taken  fire  before  any  of  the  servants  •.  F...  1'  I  could  get  np  stairs,  and  the  room  was  quite  destroyed.  Mrs.  a  phenontrnon  iu  author-  Arley  was  saved  by  the  exertions  of  her  eldest  daughter,  but  is  . STYLE=superscript  i  much  burnt.  •  c,  at  aricious  of  ambition.  :  -.. STYLE=superscript  regruursorm  .1  . STYLE=superscript  ,  who,  itavitic  perfected  i  M  Nit  RI.E  D.  •  one  likely  to  identify  iiiin  1  Lt.tely,  at  Edinburgh,  by  the  Rev.  Dr.  Hunter,  the  Rev.  S.  'cool  fame,  anxious  only  to  1  lirlwo,  A.  M.  Minister  of  the  Parish  of  l'otigland  Kircud  , STYLE=superscript  bright  to  Miss  Eliza  Dimon,  daughterof  At  otlices  are  so  emulous  ?  I  the  Rev.  Dr.  Duncan,  •  ~  ~  to  ad  ?  Your  work  is.  I  I  Of  London.  •  •  .  „  to  your  character,  whit:  DIED.  -stiu  lo  your  cognatrints  On  Thorsday•morninc  last,  at  her  house  in  Upper  Wimpole-  p  g•  street,  Lady.D.  litzw  Minn),  54ter  to  the  Earl  of  Fitzwilliam.  to  .persoutes  the  most  i  n  ns-  OI STYLE=superscript  .  most  memorable;  and  it  YEStERD  MP,  O  AY'S  PIMP,  STOCKS.  )st  extraordinary.  It  was STYLE=superscript  3  per  Cent.  Consols  On;  i—(  . STYLE=superscript  s  per  Cent.  Navy  97i  4  .  —Exchequer  tly,  prosecutful  by  vu  o  zea-  Bills  8,  9  pm.—Ditto  Fundable  7,  .8  pm.—lndia  Bonds  ye  successfully  1  Why  is  it  .  8,9  pm.--tottery  Tickets  £2l  19—Cons.  .  fur  Account  671  k.  Ca•aligatiaalWritiffill.  '  -..lllll,l&#34;.....Gisj=ll:llMiNiiiraliMilingalllMPlMOMOlMW-'  ^  NI  J.  B.  -BELL  and  J.  DE  CAMP,  at  the  Office  of  Le  Beau  Monde;  or,  Literary  and  Fsill-"
