text
"E  NATIPNAL  REGISTER..  56  T;  connected  by  ties  of  the  closest  alliance,  and  by  stipulations  which  unite  their  counsels  for  peace  as  well  as  for  war.  To  Spain  his  alajesty  is  not  yet  bound  by  any  formal.instru formal.instrupent  pent formal.instrupent  ;  but  his  Majesty  has,  n  the  face'of  the  world,  contracted  with  that  nation  engagements  not  less  Sacred  and  not  less  bind binding  ing binding  upon  his  M:ijesty',;  mind  than  the  most  solemn  treaties..  His.  Majesty  therefore  assumes  that  l  in  an  overture  made  to  his  Nla Nlajesty  jesty Nlajesty  for  entering  into  negociations  for  a  general  peace  the  re..  lotions  subsisting  between  his  Majesty  and  the  Spanislrbiontirchy  •  have  been  dit•tinctly  taken  into  consideration,  and  that  the  vernment  acting  in  the  name  of  his  Catholic  Majesty,  Ferdinautl  the  Seventh,,,  is  uncterstood  to  be  a  party  to  any  negoci4tion  in  . STYLE=superscript  Which  his  Majiisty  is  invited  to  engage,.  (Signed)  •  GEORGE  CANNING.  Count  de  nomanzotr  tn•.  Mr.  Secretary  fiaaning,  dated  Paris,  28th'  Nov.  1808.  •  Received  December  6th.  .  •  NOTE.  •  •  The  tinclergliniql.  Arirtister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  his  - STYLE=superscript  Majesty  the  Emperor  of  all  1  1 STYLE=superscript  -.0  Ruffilas,  has  the  honour  to  reply  'to  the  isilv  of  the  With  Oc  ,Her,  si  i  nied  by  Mr.  Canning,  Secrefary  of  . STYLE=superscript  State'  for  Foreign  Wffair;  to  t:  is  Majesty  'the  king  o  r  (114  at  fain.  and  addressed  by.  his  Excelfehey  the  Russian  •  Atribaisagr  1  ,Paris  ;—That  the  admission  of  the  Sovereigns  in  Alliance  With  England,  to  a  •Congress.catinei  be  a  point  of  any  difficujiy,  in  that  - STYLE=superscript  403sta  And  it  i'anee  cottsitif  to  . STYLE=superscript  if.  &#34;'But  this  principle.'  by  no.thelinsiitetitls  . STYLE=superscript  tO  * STYLE=superscript  the  nceessity  of  . STYLE=superscript  admitting  the  Plenipo Plenipolentiarl,s,  lentiarl,s, Plenipolentiarl,s,  of  the  parilsh  insurgents:  •  The  Emperor  of  Russia  cannot  admit  theitn  114  Etdplrp  ,  in  - STYLE=superscript  similar  circumstances,  —  and  erip'  rrec  Ilea  one  particular  instance,—itas  always  been  tree  !ci  .1  he  smile  ciple.  Moreover,  he  has  already  lc,  khowtedz,ed  Kin!.  .Joseph  Napoleon.  fie  has  announced,to  . STYLE=superscript  Rritanaie  hdljesty,  that  he  was  united  With  fhe.  Emperor  of  the  French  for  peace  as  well  as  for  war;  and  his  .  Imperial.  jelly  here  r-peats  thaf  declaration..  He  is  resolved  'ant  to  sepa-  .  rate  his  !ti:er  , STYLE=superscript  •sts'  from  tifoie  of  that  MonarCh  ;  but  they  areboth  .  ready  to  :tonclaile  'a  peda  l  *  provided  it  be  just,  honourable,  and  egital  !Or  all.  parties.  •  •  •  .  •  The  undersigned  sees  with  pleasure,  that,  in  this  difference  of  opialow  respecting  the  Spaniards,  nothing  presents  itself  which  can  either  prevent  or  delay  the  opening  of  a  Congress.  He  de deri  ri deri  his  persuasion  in  this  respect,  from  that  which  his  Britannic  Majesty  has  himself  confided  to  the  two  Emperors,  that  he  is•  bound  by  no  positive  engagement  with  those  who  have  taken  up  arms  in  Spain.  After  fifteen  years  of  war,  Europe  has  a'  right  tademand  pare..  The  interest  of  all  the  Powers,  includ including  ing including  that  of  England,  is  to  render  it  general.  Humanity  cam=  funds  it;  and  such  a  desire,  surely,  cannot  be  foreign  to  the  fee.  ins  of  his  Britannic  Majesty.  How  can  it  he,  that  he  alone  can  withdraw  himself  from  such  an  object,  and  refuse  to  tenni tennipate  pate tennipate  the  miseries  ofsuffering  humanity  ?  •  The  undersigned  consequently  renews,  in  the  name  of  the  Em Emperor  peror Emperor  his  august  Master,  the  proposal  already  spade,  to  *IP?  Plenipotentiaries  to  uny  city  on  the  Continent,  which  his  Bri Britannic  tannic Britannic  Majesty  may  please  to  point  out;  to  admit  to  the  Congress  the  Plenipotentiaries  of  the  Sovereigns  in  alliance  with  (:rest  Britain  to  treat  upon  the  basis  of  the  uti  posstdetis,  and  upon  that  of  the  respective  power  of  the  belligerent  parties:  In  fine,  to  accept  any  basis  which  may  have  for  its  object  the  conclusion  Of  a  peace;  in  which  all  parties  shall  find  honour,  justice.  and  equality.  The  undersigned  has  the  honour  to  renew  to  his  xceJiency  Mr.  Canning  the  assurances  of  his  high  consider-titian.  •(Signed)  COMA  NICHOLAS  DE  ROMANZOFF.  M.  de  Champagny  to  Mr.  Canning.—Norn.  The  undersigned.has  laid  before  the  Emperor,  his  Master,  the  note  of  his  Excellency  Mr.  Cannin•.  If  it  were  true  that  t  h  e  evils  of  war.  were  felt  only  o  n  th  e  Continent,  certainly  there  ._  would  be  little  hope  of  attaining  peace.  Thetwo  Emperors  hatd  '  flattered  themselves  that  the  object  of  their  measure  would  not  have  been  misinterpreted  in  Landon.  Could  the  English  Minis Ministry  try Ministry  have  ascribed  it  to  weakness  or  necessity,  when  every  im impartial  partial impartial  statesman  must  recngnolle  in  the  spirit  of  peace  and  mo moderation  deration moderation  by  which  it  is  dictated,  the  characteristics  of  power  mid  true  greatness  I  France  and  Russia  can  carry  on  the  war  so  long  as  the  Court  of  London  shall  not  recur  to  just  and  equitable  dispositions,  and  they  are  resolved  to  do  so,  now  is  it  possible  for  the  French  Government  to  entertain  the  proposal  which  has  been  made  to  it,  of  admitting  to  the  Nego-  •  .-.:  JAN;  -29.  a  ciatlon  the  Spanish  insurgents.  What  would  the  English  vernment  have  said  had  it  been  proposed  to  them  te:ldmiethe  Ca  l  tholic  insurgents  of  Ireland  ?  France,  Aiittolit  having  any,  ;frets;  ties  with  them,  has  been  in  Communication  with  then)  :  lute  made  them  promises,  and  has  frequently  sent  them  succours.  Could  such  a  proposal  have  found  place  .  in  a  note,  theObje”OfWh:ich  ought  not  to*  have  been  to  irritate,  but  to:endeiVeur  to  effect  to.  mutual  conciliation  art&amp;good  underistandinj?  England  will  land STYLE=superscript  herself  under  a  strange  mistake,  if,  contrary  .  to  'the  esperietire  of  the  past,  she  still  entertains  the  ichqt  of  ronfendingStie  . STYLE=superscript  cessftilly,  upon  the  Continent,  against  the  artnieS  of  Fiance,  What  hope  can  she  now  have  .especially  as  France  is'  irreVocabl,y  'nuked  with  Russia:  The  undersigned  is  camtrindeeto  repetif.  preposal,  to  admit  to  the  negotiation  all  the  Allies  of  the  King  of  En  land  ;  whether  it  be  the  Kingfwho  reigns  in  the  13razils  ;  whether  it,  be  the  King  4rtin.  reigns  in  Sweiten;  whether  it.be  the  King;  who  reigns  in  ;  *anti  to  take  fur:Aim  basis  of  the  negociatiOn  the  uti  possi.-reiis.  -Ile  is  ceinmattstedle  express  the  hope  that,  pot  losing-sight  Of  the  intSvirabl  e  results  Of  the  force  of  States,  it  will  be  remembered;  that  iletrwtflkosettMt  Powers  there  isjno  solid  peace,  but  that-which  i*.itt  ii,ts  sfrtine'Cilne  equal  a;  - STYLE=superscript  :.ihonourable  for  all  p:lrties.  'the  undersi..:ned  roGlests  his  14c.-liency  Mr.  Canning  to  accept  theassuranceß  eift  . STYLE=superscript  h  is  sitigh sitighest  est sitighest  conbideration.  (Signed)  *CttAattlAGN.v.  or:r  RI  AL  .  4 STYLE=superscript  .N4:)  .  T.  •  .•  •  •  •  Dated  Foreign  Ailice,  9th  Dee.  1808.  •  The  undersigned,  his  .Majesty's  Principal  Secretary  of  State  for  Foreign  Affairs,  has  laid  before  - STYLE=superscript  the•Ning•ftis  — STYLE=superscript  Master,  the  ,note  transmitted  to  him  by  his  , STYLE=superscript  'Exoelleney  the  Count  Nit  - STYLE=superscript  holas  de  Romanzoff,  Minister  for  Coreigir  Atfaimof  his  Majesty  the  Emperor  of  all  the  *Rtissias,  dated  on  the  10-•.  ii  of  November,  The  King  learns  with  nstottiithment  and  regret,  the  expectation  nhich  are:•ars  to  have  been  entertained  ill/4  his  . STYLE=superscript  Ilajeky'shottld  consent  to  commence  a  negociation  for  general  peace  by  the  previous  abandonment  of  the  Cause  of  the  Spanish  nation,  and  °flit°  legitimate  monarchy  of  Spain,  •  i  retie  fereneett)  ttnitantypa— ttnitantypation  tion ttnitantypation  which  has  no  parallel  in  the  history  or  thv.-worx.  His  Majesty  had  hoped  that  the  participation  of  the  Emperor  of  Russia  in  the  overtures  made  to  his  Majesty,  :would  hare  af afforded  forded afforded  a  security  to  his  Alajesity  against  the  proposal  of,u;enn4i  i  lion,  so  unjust  in  its  effect,  and-  so  fatal  in  its  example.  Nor  can  his  Majesty  conceive  by  what  obligation  of  duty  pr.  4.  10,  terest,  or  by  what  ,prinril:lo.  o‘'  Rusoao.p4ilicy,  his  *lmperial  Majesty  can  have  found  himself  conip,•lled  to  acknosi  ledge  'the  right,  assumed  by  France,  to  d^pose•and.  imprison  triendis  So Sovereigns,  vereigns, Sovereigns,  and  forcibly  to  transfer  to  .herself  the  allegiance,  bf  loyal  and  independent  nations.  If  these  be  ioiteed  the  princi principles  ples principles  to  which  the  Emperor  of  Russia  has  inviolably  tutached  himself;  to  which  his  Imperial  Majesty  has  pledged  .the.  sacter.and  resources  of  bis  Empire;  which  he  has  united  hims  elf  .wita  France  to  establish  by  war,  and  to  maintain.  in  pea  ce,  deeply  does  his  Majesty  lament'  a  determination,  by.  which  the  u  fte  ring  s  .of  Europe,  must  be  aggravated  and  prOlougcd'.but  pot  to  his  Majesty  is  to  be  attributed  the  contiouunce  of  ;he  cala calamities  mities calamities  of  war,  by  .the  disappointment  of  all  hope  of  wk:a  peace  as  would  be  compatible  with  justice  and  with  honour,  .  The  undersigned,  &amp;c:,  •  •  (Signed)  GEGRGE  CANNING:  OFFICIAL  NOTE.  •  Dated  Foreign  Office,  Dec.  9,  ISO.  The  undersigned,  his  Majesty's  Principal  Secretary  of  'State  rot-Foreign  Affairs,  has  laid  before  the  King,  his  Master,  the  Note  transmitted  to  him  by  his  Excellency  M.  de  Chainpagny,  hied  49th  NOvember.—He  is  especially  commanded  by  his  Ma Ma-.sty  -.sty Ma-.sty  to  abstain  from  noticing  any  of  those  lOpics  and  expres expres.nus  .nus expres.nus  insulting  to  his  Majesty,  •to  his  Allies,  and  to  the  Spanish  mien,  with  which  the  Official  Note  teanensittect  by  M.  de  C:!anpagny  Majesty  was  desirous  to  have  tre•ited  fur  a  peace  which  might  have  arranged  the  re resue.  sue. resue.  live  interests  of  all  the  Powers  engaged  •in  the  war  on  }Awl  pies  of  equal  justice  ;  and  his  Majesty  sincerely  regrets  that  this  doire  of  his  Majesty  is  disappointed.  But  hie  Majes Majesly  ly Majesly  is  determined  not  to  abandon  the  cause  of  the  Spanish  cation,  ond  of  the  legitimate  Monarchy  of  Spain  ,  and  •the  •pretensions  of  France  to  exclude  from  the  vegeciation  the•Ceuiral  and  Su Supreme  preme Supreme  Government,  acting  in  the  name  of  his  Catholic  Majesty  Ferdiband  VII.  is  one  which  his  Majesty  could  Dot  admit,  without  acquiescing  in  an  usurpation  which  has  no  parallel  is  the  history  of  the  world.--'The  oadersigued,  dec.  .  (Signed)  Gro.  CANNINGic  P8_TB00018 1 STYLE=superscript  /  1  R  P8_TB00019 1  4  ~  .lAA  1  1  P8_TB00020 ~  ;,,  t  P8_TB00021 ilk"
