text
"twEicry-Fouttiqr  nvuutiN.  ASTORGA,  JAN.  e.—The  Emperor  arrived  here  on  the  tit.  The  road  from  Benevente  to  Astorga  is  covered  with  dedd  English  horses,  waggons;  and  caissons.  '  On  the  road  froni  Astorga  td  Villa  Franca,  General  Colbert,  tetninandillt  the  advanced  guard,  made  2000  prisoners.  The  Einlieror  has  chat•ged  the  Duke  of  Dalmatia  with  the  glorious  mission  .of  pursuing  the  English  to  their  point  of  de  barkation,  and  of  throwing  them  into  the  sea.  General  St.  Cyr  has  entered  Barcelona;  the  Dtikes  of  Corneg Cornegliano  liano Cornegliano  and  Treviso  have  invested  Saragossa,  and  taken  pOssession  of  Monte  Teo:ero  with  little  loss.  General  SCbastiani  having  passed  the  Tagus  on  the  34th;  at  Arzobispo,  liar  attacked  and  routed  the  remains  Of  the  EStrama'  duran  army.  General  Valence  has  passed  the  Thgus  over  the  bridge  of  Almaraz:  PA  MS,  DEC.  36.--:The  fillowing  is  a  cOpy  Of  the  addres  s  presented  to  his  Majesty  the  Emperor  by  the  Corregidor  of  Madrid,  iri  the  name  of  the  Magistracy  and  Citizens  of  that  Capital  Sire,  - STYLE=superscript  the  city  of  Mttdrld;  represented  by  it!  Magistrates,  iteculai•  and  regular  Clergy,  Nobility;  and  Deputies  of  the  wards,  presents  itA-If  at  the  feet  of  your  Itnper4il  Itlajesty,  to  °MT  you  Its  most  tvipeetfill  thanks  for  the  gracious  clenitalgley  with  %Welt  your  maltfty;  in  the  conquest  which  your  victor!dits  treirps  have  made  of  this  city,  has  been  pleased  to  think  of  the  safety  and  vieintre  of  its  inhabitants,  AO  the  praise-worthy  and  bent,-  .  scent  treatment  which  yoor  Majesty  has  been  pleased  to  shew  towards  them;  and  w  hith  the  city  of  Madrid  tonsiderS  at  a  pledge  of  forgiveness  for  all  that  has  occurred  iu  the  absence  of  our  King  Joseph,  your  Majesty's  brother.  .  ,  The  several  Colleges,  constituting  this  Assembly,  diily  deli deliberating  berating deliberating  on  the  subject  of  their  meeting;  have  concluded  and  re reitolved  itolved reitolved  to  entreat  your  Imperial  and  itOyal  Majesty  that  it  may  pleac  you  to  guint  them  the  favour  of  seeing  King  Joseph  in  Madrid,  in  order  that,  under  his  laws,  Madrid,  with  all  the  places  under  its  imrandiate  jurisdiction,  and  the  whole.of  Spain,  may  at  length  enjoy  that  tranquillity  and  happiness  which  they  expect  from  the  bentvolente  of  his  litisty's  character.  Finally,  Madrid  flatters  herself  that  she  shall  tind  protect  tion  in  the  power  of  your  Imperial  and  ttoy-al  Majesty,  at  the  same  time  that  your  clemency  guarantees  her  happiness.  Sire  !—At  the  feet  of  your  Imperial  and  Royal  Madrid,  Dec.  9,  1803.  To  this  Address  hi:4  Majesty  returned  the  following  Answer  i---  lam  pleased  with  the  sentiments  of  the  city  of  Nladrid.  I  tegr,A  the  injurits  she  has  suffered,  and  am  particularly  happy  that,  under  existing  circumstances,  I  have  been  able  to  effect  tier  deliverance,  and  to  protect  her  from  great  calamities.  1  have  hastened  to  adopt  measure§  calculated  to  tranquillize  till  rabks  of  the  citizens,  knowing  how  painful  a  state  of  uncer  tainty  is  to  all  men  coltectively  anti  individually.  I  have  preserved  the  Spiritual  Orders,  but  with  a  limita limitafine  fine limitafine  of  the  number  of  Monks.  There  is  not  a  single  intelligent  person  who  is  not  of  opinion  that  they  were  too  numerous.  Those  of  them  who  are  Influenced  by  a  Divine  call,  shall  remain  in  their  cloister:.  With  regard  to  those  whose  call  was  doubtful,  or  influenced  by  temporal  consideration',  I  have  fixed  Veir  con condition  dition condition  in  the  order  of  secular  priests.  Out  of  the  surplus  of  the  monastic  property,  I  have  provided  for  the  maintenance  of  the  pastors,  that  important  and  useful  class  of  the  clergy.  l  have  abolished  that  court  which  was  a  subject  of  complaint  to  Ettropc  NO  the  itreseat  age.  Priests  may  guide  the  intudi  of  men,  but  P3_TB00018 •"
