text
"THE  N&amp;TIONAL  REGISTER.  of  the  prejudices  he  had  so  unkn9wingly,  and,  as  it  afterwards  proved  unfoundedly  entertained.  lie  tookjthe  purl  best  becoming  the  Christian  preacher.  Genuine  philanthropy  is  not,  after  all  our  boasted  kindness,  the  vice  of  this  age  let  us  be  carefd,  there therefore,  fore, therefore,  bow  we  circumscribe  the  operation  of  really  CHARITABLE  institutions.  Policy  and  impolicy,  propriety  and  impropriety,  are  terms  to  be  utterly  discarded.  Let  us  imitate  s  in  this  in instance,  stance, instance,  the  fountain  of  all  from  which  the  rain  of  life  descends-alike  upon  the  just  and  the  unjust!  It  is  this  that  constitutes  genuine  charity.  ONESIMUS.  ***  To  the  Letters  from  '  Graeechurch-street,'  rind  '  An  Impartial  Reader,'  it  is  by  no  means  difficult  to  reply.  Not  merely  for  the  sake  of  my  reputable  friend  who  dates  his  com communication  munication communication  in  Gracechurch-street,  but  also  on  account  of  nu numerous  merous numerous  other  applicants,  I  must  inform  my  courteous  Corres Correspondents,  pondents, Correspondents,  presently  and  nally,  that  times  and  seasons,  the  when  mud  the  how,  rest  entirely  with  ulyself.  _  _  _  As  to  an  Impartial  Reat:er,'  who  writes  with  singuhr  ameillty,  let  him  look,  if  so  he  pleases,  to  the  current  number  of  Popular  Preachers  ;'  and  he  will,  I  hope,  see  no  cause  to  doubt  the  lenity  of  Oncsimus,  hensoever  it  can  be  fairly  exercised  !  The  tatter  part  of  my  Impartial  Reader's  Letteris  worth  attention  ;  but  I  must  defer  noticing  it,  till  it  becomes  my  province  to  criticise  the  clerical  character  of  the  present  Rector  of  Clerkentrell.  Respecting  extemporary  preaching,  it  is  my  fate  to  have  differed  generally  from  the  worthy  writer  of  this  letter.  I  shall  be  pleased  to  receive  such  information  as  it  may  be  in  the  power  of  my  Correspondents  to  communicate.  ONESIMrs.  FRENCH  LAURENCE,  L.L.D.  TO  the  formidable  catalogue  of  deceased  emioent  characters,  ho  have  successively  been  snatched  trim  society,  within  the  last  few  years,  is  now  to  be  added  the  name  of  French  Laurence,  L.D.  and  Member  of  Parliament  for  the  Borough  of  Peter Peter)rough.  )rough. Peter)rough.  This  Gentleman  felt  the  victim  of  rapid  and  unex unexpected  pected unexpected  decline.  lie  expired  on  Monday  last,  February  27,  in  the  vigour  of  his  days  and  the  maturity  of  his  talents.  Distinguished  as  a  civilian,  a  political  philosopher,  a  poet,  and  a  senator,  his  death  must,  without  partiality  to  him  tzolivi tzolivi)ally,  )ally, tzolivi)ally,  be  considered•as  a  pnblic  bereavement.  EL  . STYLE=superscript  ;  the  evit evit,on  ,on evit,on  of  igorous  intellects,  combined  with  persevering  applica applicaion,  ion, applicaion,  Dr.  Laurence  rose  into  high  professional  estimation.  He  'came  politically  know  't  by  the,  active  part  that  he  took,  during  in  favour  of  Mr.  Fox's  coiltcsted  election  for  V('estmirl V('estmirl,ter.  ,ter. V('estmirl,ter.  His  career  in  the  Senate  was  hirltly  respectable.  His  opinions,  which  he  not  uofrequeutly  deliveted  in  the  House  of  Commons,  were  the  result  of  deep  thought,  couched  in  striking  and  nervous  language,  and  were  alwa7.'s  respectfully  received.  As  a  poet  and  wit,  the  •  itulliad,'  and  Probatiooary  Odes,'  of  which  the  Preface  and  Notes  - STYLE=superscript  to  the  former  were  mostly  from  this  pen,  have  established  1)r.  Laurence's  reputatioc,  beyond  the  chances  of  mutability.  He  was  also  author  of  several  Election  Ballads,  which  reflect  credit  on  his  genius;  ant!  of  various  Mi Minor  nor Minor  Pieces,  which  appeared  iu  the  Poetical  Legiter,'  and  which  sufficiently  evince  the  strength  and  versatility  of  his  talents.  One  of  the  Executors  of  the  late  Edmund  Burke,  it  became  the  province  of  Dr.  Laurence,  in  discharge  of  the  trust  so  re reposed  posed reposed  in  hint,  to  superintend  the  Posthumous  Publications,  ous  te tegetber  getber tegetber  with  the  other  Literary  Property,  of  that  iilustri  writer  and  profound  statesman.  Among  these  works,  the  con conducting  ducting conducting  of  the  old  Annual  Register,'  in  the  composition  of  which  Dr.  Laurence  had  long  assisted,  came,  at  the  death  of  Alt.  Burke,  entirely  under  his  direction.  Of  the  volumes  imme immediately  diately immediately  subsequent,  published  by  Rivingtons,  Ute  Prefaces,  and  some  portions  of  the  History  of  Europe,  are  written  by  1)r.  Lawrence.  These  compositions  would  alone  sustain  his  literary  character.  Much  is  it  to  he  regretted,  that  his  other  avocations,  which  were  multifarious  and  perplexing,  prevented  him  from  extending  his  credit  as  an  author.  From  him,  and  only  him,  was  eventually  to  he  expected  the  real  Life  of  Burke.  lie  has  suddeuly  descended  to  that•grave  w  here  there  is  no  more  either  of  work  or  devise!  Dead,  however,  he  still  lives.  His  memory  will  long  survive  his  burial.  Endeared  to  his  friends  by  his  virtues,  yalitei  by  the  public  for  his  writings,  and  respected  by  iris  compatriots  for  his  senazorial  character,  he  is  exempted  from  the  com:non  lot  of  oblivion  ;  and  the  recollection  of  his  conduct  and  Ltlentb  vt  al  linger  some  time  loni,er  among  mankind.--  MARCH  5.  Though  time  n  lit  w  ear  us,  afid  %be  musrgrow  Such  men  are  not  forgot  as  soon  as  cold!  Their  fragrant  memoq  will  outlast  their  lo  . STYLE=superscript  nb,  Dubai  m'd  for  ever  in  its  own  perfume.—Cow  rrn.  This  hasty  and  imperfeet  testimory,  to  the  merits  of  French  Laurence,  has  nothing  but  truth  and  sincerity  to  recommend  it.  lie  is  one  of  those,  let  it  be  added,  ,vilo  seem,  as  public  per persons,  sons, persons,  to  have  been  happily  takco  from  the  evil  that  is  to  come  !  le  lived  in  better  times.  d  MICUS."
