text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  mitted  himself  in  the  case  of  Kennet.  ns  was  proved  by  the  evi evidence  dence evidence  of  Colonel  Taylor  at  the  Bar,  he  could  not  help  thinking  that  there  was  strong  ground  for  believing  Miss  Taylor's  evi evidence  dence evidence  to  be  true.  If  an  invasion  were  to  take  place,  was  the  Duke  of  York  a  fit  person  to  he  at  the  head  of  the  army  ?  lie  believed  there  was  not  a  men  to  be  found,  from  one  end  of  England  to  another,  hut  who  was  of  a  contrary  opi opinion.  nion. opinion.  As  to  the  danger  of  removing  , STYLE=superscript  him,  the  Noble  Lord  said  he  could  see  none.  The  Duke  of  Marlborough  was  removed  from  the  command  of  the  army  in  time  of  war,  and  no  injury  occurred  to  the  country  from  his  removal.  If  the  Doke  of  1  ork  lived  ever  so  long,  there  was  no  likelihood  that  he  would  ever  become  a  Duke  of  Marlborough.  it  was  stated  by  a  Right  lion.  Gentleman  (the  Chancellor  of  the  Excheqner),  that  the  Duke  of  York  was  ashamed  and  sorry  for  his  criminality,  that  he  regretted  his  violation  of  the  seventh  commandment,  and  that  he  would  reform.  He  conceived.  however,  that  at  certain  periods  of  life,  habits  became  Seed  and  unchangeable.  His  itosal  Highness  was  now  forty:live  at.  fistty-six  years  of  age,  and  that  was  a  time  of  life  which  did  not  airord  much  hope  for  improvement.  The  Noble  koni  made  some  severe  remarks  on  the  letter  o  f  the  Duke  of  York  to  the  Speaker,  which  he  thought  a  most  blameable  and  ill-advi;ed  measure,  and  coneladed  with  apologising  to  the  noose  fur  having  detained  the  attention  of  the  House  so  long.  Lord  ST  t  V  LRY  after  he  hail  considered  Opp  evidence  from  beginning  to  end,  and  examined  it  in  every  way  that  he  could,  he  found  it  impossible  for  him  to  say  that  the  Duke  of  y  ork  was  innocent—(  Hear  !  Hear  !  )  Many  of  the  cases  certainly  were  not  within  the  rules  laid  &amp;motor  the  guid guidauce  auce guidauce  of  the  Committee,  by  w  hich  they  were  directed  to  confine  their  attention  to  the  investigation  of  military  matters  alone  ;  hut  they  formed  a  chain  of  evidence  against  the  Royal  Mike,  hich  it  was  impossible  to  resist.  It  was  saying  nothing  that  every  thing  appeared  regniar  in  the  hooks  of  the  office.  When  Kennet  applied  'for  a  place,  the  Duke  of  York's  Secretary  wrote  to  Sir  Horace  Mann,  to  procure  a  recommen recommendation  dation recommendation  in  his  favour,  and  in  this  way  it  was  probable  recom recommendations  mendations recommendations  were  procured,  and  sent  to  the  Horse  Guards.  A  great  difference  of  opinion  prevailed  respecting  the  credibility  of  Mrs.  Clarke.  Some  parts  of  her  testrmony  were  satisfactoril  nd  substantially  proved  to  be  true.  The  evidence  of  Miss  Tay Taylor  lor Taylor  he  thought  perfectly  consistent'  and  natural.  A  great  deal  of  stress  had  been  laid  on  the  circunistance  of  the  Duke's  refusing  to  comply  with  Mrs.  Clarke's  terms.  when  she  threat threatened  ened threatened  to  expose  him  unless  they  were  eomplred  with,  and  an  in inference  ference inference  was  drawn  from  thence,  that  he  was  'so  firm  in  the  con consciousness  sciousness consciousness  of  his  innocence,  that  he  spurned  at  proposals  Which,  bad  he  known  he  was  'guilty,  he  must  have  complied  with.—  But  he  - STYLE=superscript  might  be  confident  in  his  own  influence  - STYLE=superscript  and  Con Connections,  nections, Connections,  and  be  persuaded  that  whatever  Mrs.  Clatlie  night  ad advance  vance advance  'against  him  would  be  regarded  as  calumny  . STYLE=superscript  ;  Kennel  clearly  shewed  what  Were  the  feelings  of  hip  Royal  Highness  in  these  transactions.'  , STYLE=superscript  If  fie  could'  have  got  the  loan,  'no  matter  what  was  the  character  of  the  man,  Kennet  would  have  got  n  place  through  the  recommendation  of  114  Royal  Ilig'hness•  the  case  of  Samuel  Carter,  it  was  clear  ihat  he  got  his  promo promotion  tion promotion  through  the  influence  of  Mrs.  Clarke.  It  was  in  vain  to  say  that  the  document'vvhich  had  been  phidoced  from  the  office  hall  got  him  his  commission.  He  lived  with  Mrs.  Clarke  in  Tavis Tavistuck-place,  tuck-place, Tavistuck-place,  before  she  went  to  Gloucester-place,  and  she  pro probably  bably probably  might  have  mentioned  Vie  first  recommendation  to  his  Royal  Highness,  but  it  was  clear  that  it  was  Mrs.  Clarke's  in intervention  tervention intervention  alone  which  procured  him  his  commission.  General  Clavering's  letters  Worded  goother  convincing  proof  of  the  influ influence  ence influence  of  Mri.  Olathe  over  the  mind  of  the  Com,nander  in  Chief.  The  General  'applied  Id  her,  becitiise  he  had  experienced  her  infiueuce  before.  (Hear  I  hear  hear  !  hear  !  )  His  Royal  llighnest  ought  sever  to  have  been  placed  in  a  responsible  situ situation,  ation, situation,  t:'  he  wag  not  liable  to  answer  for  his  conduct  like  any  other  kadividual.  He  differed  from  the  Gentlemen  on  his  side  of  the  Ho  u  se  on  lighter  matters,  but  he  thought  in  his  conscience,  however,  that  the  Duke  of  York  had  been  guilty  of  personal  corruption,  and  theteore  tie  should  vote  for  the  original  AddresS.  Sim  TUrttON  said,  what  had  raised  this  coun country  try country  to  the  rank  which  it  occuVies  in  thE  seale  of  nations  I—V  hat  had  enlarged  its  internal  felicity  so  far  beyond  the  usual  measure  of  E4ropean  happiness?ovits  exact  distribution  of  .justice  tea  all  its  subjects  alike.  Atter  commenting  on  the  itenetits  re resuiting  suiting resuiting  from  the  impartial'  exercise  of  the  judicial  powers,  he  examined  the  Dukes  lc;tet  to  the  Home.  It  named  with  true  British  spirit;  it  was  a  manly  and  dignified  appal  to  the  equity  of  she  ceptisgaiatives  of  * STYLE=superscript  Lie  ti.itiou,  whom  lac  - STYLE=superscript  utts  repre-  ISS  rented  to  have  injured,  and  he  hoped  it  would  meet  the  at attention  tention attention  to  which  it  was  entitled.  Much  had  been  said  aboot  MtlllliliCSS  and  dignity,  but  sounds  mere  easily  produ:.ed,  has  never  caught.  Ile  (Sir  T.  Tattoo)  wished  to  impress  m  pon  the  House  the  necessity  of  not  ciming  to  an  timb'gnoas  de.  cisine.  He  deprecated  the  farrago  of  abuse  that  had  been  launched  ngail:st  Mrs.  Clarke.  She  was  below  alit's,.  ;  s  i  n  s  wa  s  merely  part  of  the  rubbish  with  which  the  inter,tires  of  the  superstt  u.attre  of  accusation  would  he  tilled.  Ile  could  not  agree  with  the  sentiments  expresed  in  either  of  the  Addresse  . STYLE=superscript  4,  ;lett  would  propose  merely  the  following  trifling  amendment  in  this  paszage  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer's  Address  We  are  of  opinion,  after  a  mature  examiation  of  evidence,  that  there  is  no  ground  for  charting  his  Royal  Highness  with  thu  knowledge  of  the  scandalous  ke,  that  the  little  mono”llable  should  he  expunged,  as  he  certainly  thoto;ht  it  was  impossible  for  the  Duke  to  have  been  iguorant  of  some  of  these  transactions,  althot  - STYLE=superscript  orh  it  was  his  opinion,  that  he  had  not  connived  at  :141  improper  traffic  or  promotions  and  situations.  Mr.  It  voEn  rejected  Mr-.  Clarke's,  Captain  Saieloo'c,  and  Miss  Taylor's  evidence,  and  declared  that,  had  tins  former  been  on  oath,  she  would  have  been  tried  for  per.i  or  and  most  undoubtedly  doomed  to  the  pillory.  lie  poo,toa  out  the  many  establishments  which  the  same  ed  person  had  formed  ;  the  Military  School  at  Marlow  :o  .d  High  Wickham,  which  had  :already  proilueed  co  mans  goad  Officers,  and  the  Military  Academy  at  Chelsea,  on  wh:eli  1501  children  of  soldiers,  not  only  those  de  td,  but  of  those  still  fighting  for  the  service  of  their  country,  o  ere  eiloeated.  Lord  Tem  et.e  thought  the  Moore  hail  to  consider  whe whether  ther whether  it  would  state  what  he  knew  to  his  Majesty  - STYLE=superscript  ,  or  forfeit  the  confidence  of  the  country.  After  noticiag  the  evideure  of  Nits,  Clarke,  who  came  to  the  Liar  of  that  !louse  under  the  most  tle.-  favourable  circurnstaiwca,  and  that  of  Miss  Tav  lor,  he  t  hottght  they  did  not  go  to  cons  in  the  Duke  of  corruption.  Tho'  et  dence'proveil  that  Mrs.  Clarke  had  'an  undue  interference  t  Military  and  other  Prienot;iins.  not  to  mention  the  Dui,e's  tors.  -  ilk  telling  her  to  inform  Claverin  that  no  -Tc.tad  Lotas  lions  were  to  he  raised,  she  wed,  Ora  if  they  hail  beea.  he  hail  not  applied  to  the  wrong  q•virter.  !To  entvityLd  it  -•tyit;:,  that  there  were  reasatth:e  ;:ronnds  fac  th-  Dttis  ..  to  hay..  had  suspicion,  and  that  he  was  no  loni;er  tit  to  he  Cota.nander  in  Chief.  The  Loan  A  nvocATe  for  Si7otlatel  thotught  that  the  N•m4e  should  come  to  clear  and  decided  rest  lotions  of  its  opil000.;  that,  by  adopting  the  Address,  it  worth'  act  to towards  wards towards  itself.  Mr.  W  t.nr  aro  nr  aelinoo  lodged  the  i,,1  1  ,,0.3:1cv  or  within  berm...  the  !louse,  an.l  s•ii:l  he  had  taken  :;resit  pails  to  come  to  an  oainioo  on  it.  It  iip  pea  tea  1.1  hi  it)  every  circumstance,  that  the  ihike  of  I:ark  hail  no  sit-pieton  (1r  knowledge  of  the  mal-practire  , STYLE=superscript  t  of  Mrs.  Ciariic.  whispered  that  Nits.('la  sts:'  intlitenee  with  hi  al  Hess,  it  was  stated  in  print.  And  a  person  the  I)o!“.'s  I;;Yz.ts  and  education,  mast  have  kIIOWn  that  the  mis:rc-srs  have  always  been  the  sources  of  corruption.  Vie...  !cht  e-tablished  a  kind  tri  shop  to  sell  the  f.  1%  tats  ait  I.  t  lit!  if  she  came  front  an  ar;tnv-broker  to  hi  ., STYLE=superscript  1;0  •al  e-s,  isuglit  to  have  been  sullicient  L;ronn  I  eor  ito  utt...,,t  havg  reasonably  supposed  that  she  was  i.titt.tted  iu  t  ;ie  arts  that  - STYLE=superscript  praciices  fie  thought  there  on.;  tlooit  that  she  h.,4  applied  to  the  Duke  of  York  for  T  onvn  ,  an  d  o  w  1,  ;  „1  called  on  him  to  say  the  Duke  %vas  angry  %vita  her,  proved  '['he  kinds  of  evidence  they  had  ;veil.,  that  of  Nits.  t'1..1  ke,  :  ho-e  who  received  favours  through  her  influence,  anti  r  ae;t•ets  ;as  well  as  the  Duke's  tetter•,  and  the  letters  of  those  V.  I:4  hailrr hailrrceived  ceived hailrrceived  favours  at  the  hands  of  NI  rs.  Clarke,  awl  those  vv  applied  to  her.  As  to  vi  itnosses,  he  t  o  ok  o  pp  or  o  t  „o,  , STYLE=superscript  premising  a  little  about  1I  r-.  Clarke.  lie  admitted  teat  sta.  seemed  to  have  little  scruple  about  violating  (tut  h.  'i  he  strongest  confirmation  that  Airs.  Clarke  had  exercised  an  m— mane  ane mane  interference,  5%3  4 STYLE=superscript  Cie  kill'r4  o  f  his  R  o  yal  ni  g  h  n  e,  s  .  authenticity  of  o  wever  been  di  -  paled.  Ent  .  .  4  itt's  ca.,',  tie  thought  principally  showed  haw  soot  favours,  e.  ci  e  to  he  ohtaitied.  French  s  levy  he  considered  a  very  , STYLE=superscript  uspieiOUS  rage.  lie  could  not  ,:ty  there  was  any  decided  pron:;  but  11-Jere  was  s-imething  rat  her  strong.  MissTayloe's  e  v  idence,  nad  sa  t  a;co  t  C:;  tors  also  sheived  that  there  was  constant  corrrspomicace  on  et  litary  tnatters  containing  such  informa;iou  as  ci.eid  eave  only  from  the  Doke.  Prom  evi.eace  as  this  he  tv  ohlo•  - STYLE=superscript  ed  to  infer  that  the  Duke  renew  of  the  ch.  .triett  aittyc!l  hoo,  and  Of  such  practices.  It  became  an  n.en,:(aera  -,  s  ty  on  the  part  or  the  House,  for  the  Dre•er.  at%stn  t.f  fa.  to  cnar..c.er  and  4ndepcndecce,  'to  give  such  a  vote  as  would  convi:,ce  the  ~,  `df  '  ~  `f  C  { STYLE=superscript  ~  -  •  P9_TB00013 •  .  MARCH  19.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  ISS  1  ...•  7  .........._____„._„  .  ..  ____  .41P-  aar....a......itsacosaiatamitamma..s.r---at-.......  ..  - STYLE=superscript  .......,.....a..ata  aattnialli  -..!!X  mitted  himself  in  the  case  of  Kennet.  as  was  proved  by  the  evi-  seated  to  have  injured,  and  he  hoped  it  would  meet  the  0%-  deuce  of  Ctilonel  Taylor  at  the  Bar,  he  could  not  help  thinking  tention  to  which  it  was  entitled.  Much  had  been  said  aboot,  .  that  there  was  strong  ground  for  believing  Miss  Taoor's  evi-  1  manliness  and  dignity,  but  sounds  mere  easily  produ  , STYLE=superscript  :ed  , STYLE=superscript  hap  I  1  deuce  to  be  true.  If  an  invasion  were  to  take  place,  '  never  caught.  Ile  (Sir  T.  Turton)  oished  to  impress  upon  the  was  the  Doke  of  York  a  fit  person  to  he  at  the  head  of  the  House  the  necessity  of  not  c  'ming  to  nil  itmt)  . STYLE=superscript  ‘4ll4iis  de..  .  .  army?  lie  believed  there  was  not  a  man  to  be  found,  from  cisine.  He  deprecated  the  farrag  o  of  abuse  that  had  been  ,  ..0-  one  end  of  England  to  another,  hut  who  was  of  a  contrary  opi-  launched  against  Mrs.  Clarke.  `  he  below  ages:'  ;  slits  was  nion.  As  to  the  danger  of  removing  him,  the  Noble  Lord  said  merely  part  of  the  rubbish  with  which  the  interst  i STYLE=superscript  ce  ; STYLE=superscript  o STYLE=superscript  f  th STYLE=superscript  e  `;  .  he  could  see  none.  The  Duke  of  Marlborough  was  removed  supersttu.oure  of  accusation  would  he  tilled.  Ile  could  not  aeree  •  from  the  command  of  the  army  in  time  of  war,  a  and  no  injury  with  the  sentiments  expressed  in  either  of  the  Addressea,  ;tett  ..,  occurred  to  the  country  from  his  removal.  If  the  Duke  of  York  would  propose  merely  - STYLE=superscript  the  following  trifling'  amendment  in  this  .:a  .  lived  ever  so  long,  there  was  no  likelihood  that  he  would  ever  passage  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  '  s  .Address  ta  Ile  .  •  t  , STYLE=superscript  become  a  Duke  of  Marlborough.  it  was  stated  by  a  Right  are  of  opinion,  after  a  mature  exantioation  of  evidence,  that  i  lion.  Gentleman  (the  Chancellor  of  the  Eacheaueo,  that  the  there  is  no  ground  for  charging  his  Royal  Highness  with  thu  .1)  Duke  of  York  was  schemed  and  sorry  for  his  criminality,  that  knowledge  of  the  scandalous  ke,  that  the  little  i  1.  he  regretted  his  violation  of  the  seventh  commandment,  and  that  monosyllable  should  he  expunged,  as  he  certainly  thotteht  S'  he  would  reform.  He  conceived,  however,  that  at  certain  it  was  impossible  for  the  Duke  to  hart  been  ignorant  of  SOllle  Of  periods  of  life,  habits  *came  fixed'  and  unchangeable.  His  these  transactions,  alt  horteh  it  was  his  opinion,  that  he  had  not  •  Royal  Highness  was  now  fortytfive  or  fbety-six  years  of  age,  connived  at  am  improper  traffic  of  promotions  and  situations.  1  •  and  that  was  a  time  of  life  which  did  not  afford  much  hope  for  Mr.  R  v  nEa  rejected  Mr-.  Clarke'4,  Captain  Sao•too'c,  i  improvement.  The  Noble  Lord  made  some  severe  remarks  on  the  and  Miss  Taylor's  evidence,  and  declared  that,  had  i  h..  .  letter  of  the  Duke  of  York  to  the  Speaker,  which  he  thought  former  been  nn  oath,  she  would  hase  been  tried  for  perjur  it  !i STYLE=superscript  a  most  blameable  and  ill-advi,:ed  measure,  and  enneladed  with  and  most  undoubtedly  doomed  to  the  pillory,  lie  poiotoo  apologising  to  the  nousefur  having  detain  ed  the  attention  of  the  out  the  many  establishments  w  hich  the  stone  liktin  tii-ii.  ouse  so  ion;.  H  ed  person  had  formed  ;  the  Military  School  at  Marlow  at  il  Lord  Sr  INI  LRY  after  he  hail  considered  the  evidence  High  Wickham  ,  which  hid  already  pro:laced  so  many  g!lart  ,  .  from  beginning  to  end,  and  examined  it  in  every  way  ()slicers,  and  the  Military  Academy  'at  Chelsea,  on  wh:cit  1501  that  he  could,  he  found  it  impossible  for  him  to  say  that  the  children  of  soldiers,  not  only  tho•e  decd,  but  of  those  still  Duke  of  '  ork  was  innocent--(  Hear  !  Hear  !  )  Many  of  the  fighting  for  the  service  of  their  couture,  o  ere  ellneated.  ;  .i,  ~  ...ases  certainly  were  not  within  the  rules  laid  &amp;motor  the  guid-  Lord  Tint  et.r:  thought  the  noose  had  to  consider  %vile-  i  .  ;mice  of  the  Committee,  by  which  they  were  directed  to  confine  ther  it  would  state  what  he  knew  to  his  Nlajests  ,or  forfeit  1  •  their  attention  to  the  investigation  of  military  matters  alone  ;  the  confidence  of  the  country.  After  nolicate  the  es  i4lettee  of  Mil.  ~  !  but  they  formed  a  chain  of  evidence  against  the  Royal  Doke,  Clarke,  who  came  to  the  i'llr  of  that  !louse  water  the  most  en-  .  a  u  hitch  it  was  impossible  to  resist.  It  was  saying  nothing  favourable  eireornstatiefaa  and  that  of  Miss  'l'a)  Inr,  he  thottarht  ;  that  every  thing  appeared  regular  in  the  hooks  of  the  they  did  not  go  to  cons  let  the  Duke  of  corruption.  The  es  i.,  ;  ....,  -,  office.  When  Kennet  applied  'for  a  place,  the  Duke  of  York's  '  deuce'  that  Mrs.  Clarke  laid  'ao  undue  interference  as  ,  to  „..  ,  .  Secretary  wrote  to  Sir  Horace  Mann,  to  procure  a  recommen-  Military  and  other  Promotions.  not  to  mention  the  i)iii,e's  f..•  7,.  '  , STYLE=superscript  ...ti•  ,  lotion  in  his  favour,  and  in  this  way  it  was  probable  recom-  torS.  Ilk  telling  her  to  inform  Clayerina  th  at  no  -  , STYLE=superscript  ce.eia  I.  I  , STYLE=superscript  ta-  '.  :'  , STYLE=superscript  :.,i'  - STYLE=superscript  1  , STYLE=superscript  :  , STYLE=superscript  mendations  were  procured,  and  sent  to  the  Horse  Guards.  A  lions  %sere  to  he  raised,  sliewed,  tit  if  they  hail  bei.o.  110  had  ,.  Ic,  great  difference  of  opinion  prevailed  respecting  the  credibility  of  not  applied  to  the  wrotig  rriarter.  !To  e  nit  , STYLE=superscript  ..111  , STYLE=superscript  1..il  li  , STYLE=superscript  •iyiii;,  l'i;  Via'  '  Mrs.  Clarke.  Some  parts  of  her  testlanonv  were  satisfactorily  that  there  were  reaganah:e  grounds  fai•  tit-  Ditio.•  to  hay.•  had  i  '  ,  L  ',,i  411  d  substantially  proved  to  be  true.  The  evidence  of  Miss  Tay-  suspicion,  and  that  he  was  no  lonaer  tit  Calt  to  he  oin.nnder  in  1.  •  for  he  thought  perfectly  consistent'  and  natural.  A  great  Chiefs  i STYLE=superscript  deal  of  stress  had  been  laid  on  the  circumstance  of  the  Duke's  The  Loan  Anvocaan  for  St-tot:10  N  t  thought  that  the  aoi4e  ,  .,  ..  ,  .  refusing  to  comply  with  Mrs.  Clarke's  terms,  when  she  threat-  should  come  to  clear  and  decided  rest  hi  ion'  , STYLE=superscript  of  its  npition.-;  aril  i;:-;•  toted  to  expose  him  unless  they  were  complier}  with,  and  an  in-  that,  by  nonoting  the  Address,  it  w  °gal  act  tli:artcorti'l:  to-  1. STYLE=superscript  t  .at  ference  was  flinwn  from  thence,  that  he  was  'so  firm  in  the  con-  wards  itself.  ,  ;s.  scioustiess  of  his  innocence,  that  he  spurned  at  Proposals  which,  Mr.  NV  lan  r  a  a  once  „-  ~t.  bad  he  known  he  was  'guilty,  he  must  have  complied  with.—  owstion  before  the  !louse,  aiLI  -.6:1  he  hod  taken  tgreat  paio,  :It  ./i.  But  he  might  be  confident  in  his  own  influence  and  con-  come  to  au  oilinion  oti  it.  it  il  p  pea  tea  1.1  ill  Hi  a  'et  oois!iiil;.•..,  m  ai*  i  ..Lf,  4  +',:;,(  pections,  and  be  persuaded  that  whatever  Mrs.  Choke'  niight  nut-  !  every  circumstance,  that  the  Ihtke  Of  York  had  110  su-p  iet  on  or  •!!:  - STYLE=superscript  4,,;,•  ranee  '  a  g  ainst  him  would  be  regarded  as  calumny.'  Kennel  knowledge  of  the  ntal-practire  , STYLE=superscript  ;  of  Mrs.  Ciailie.  I,  V  .  :lA.  ii  ..':'  !,  .  (  i  clearly  spewed  what  ivere  the  feelings  of  hip  Royal  Iliehness  in  whispered  that  Nits.  Cl:irke  had  influence  wOh  lit  .  :Z.  al  if  i.;;-  these  transactions  .  alf  he  could'  have  got  the  loan,  'no  matter  Ilet.s,  it  was  stated  ill  print.  And  a  ptsrson  0;  the  Mae's  taao.:s  what  was  the  character  of  the  man,  Ketinet  would  have  got  a  and  education,  mast  have  known  that  the  nii•:reases  of  Praties  '  t  ~•&#34;:,'  ,1  a  t  •  •  'll  k  '  '' STYLE=superscript  .l  : STYLE=superscript  ..V  place  throUgh  the  recommendation  of  [Ti;  Royal  Highness•  In  have  al  ways  h  il  been  the  source.:  of  corruption.  Vie  . STYLE=superscript  :  !,•1,1..1.11-,z.  ''  •  1 STYLE=superscript  1  .- STYLE=superscript  •:  t''  4:  the  case  of  Samuel  Carter,  it  Was  clear  ihat  he  trot  his  promo-  e-tablished  a  kind  try  shop  to  sell  the  lis  tit:a  .o'  I:«•  .Itit  a  aIA  •  .V  ., STYLE=superscript  :f  -  ^  •  0  ;tit  !ion  through  the  influence  of  Mrs.  Clarke.  It  was  in  v  ain  to  say  if  she  came  front  on  to:my-broker  to  his-  ).')  •al  i  1  :-;  ;:  V•SI  t:•:it  '  .-:i  •.  '  i  ,  •  1  1 STYLE=superscript  that  the  doeument•:w  hick  had  been  pr•othiced  from  the  office  had  aught  to  hate  been  sullicient  L;roilit  1  for  sa-,,•••i  ,, STYLE=superscript  ,i.  ito  tiii...,,t  ti  .  4  .7:6  .  got  him  his  eorunlissioa:  •He  lived  with  Mrs,  clara'e  in  l'a  v  is.  hove  reason:lloy  supposed  that  !.he  wa-  , STYLE=superscript  i.titi.ated  in  t;zll'  :kiln  ,  i  1-(...  '...'!.  !  )  tuck  -  place,  befoie  she  went  to  Gloucester-place,  and  she  pro-  Ii  that  pc:Oki!:  Ile  thoitelit  there  .%51-;  on  thou  )t  that  rho  h'id  0  k  ...  •  bably  might  have  mentioned  Vie  first  recommendation  to  his  applied  to  the  Doke  of  York  1  a  tr  'r  atan  ,  an  d  t  h  t  t  Ow  h;„1  ~  i,  ,  goyal  Highness,  but  it  was  clear  that  it  Was  Mrs.  Clarke's  in-  called  on  him  to  say  the  Duke  tros  angry  %vita  het',  I''  ''4e,l  ,  .  tervention  alone  which  procured  him  his  romirission•  General  The  kinds  of  evidence  they  hod  ;sere,  that  of  Nita  Cl:it  kts,  :ito-0  Al  41 STYLE=superscript  •  ,  Clavering's  letters  afforded  another  convincing  proof  of  the  Witt-  who  received  ('as  ours  through  her  influence,  amid  lire  ittaaos  ;os  ,  1  I.  i.  ence  of  Mra.  Olathe  over  the  mind  of  the  Contotandor  in  Chief.  well  es  the  Duke's  letter',  and  t  h  e  la  ttata  o  f  ,1  11)  ,  ;(  .  ii  I:.,  hail  ri  ....  t  '  4  The  General  'applied  Id  her,  becalise  he  had  expirienced  her  ceived  favours  at  the  llama  of  Nit's.  Clarke,  and  those  it  0 STYLE=superscript  .:,i  h:o  ,„,  ,„fit'  '  ~  influence  before.  (Hear  1  hoar  I  hear!  hear  !  )  His  Royal  applied  to  her.  As  to  w  ittiossesa  he  took  the  typo:at:iota  t.r  ,  .  llighnese  aught  sOver  to  have  been  placed  in  a  responsible  situ-  premising  a  little  about  Nita.  Clarke.  lie  admitted  taat  :.tos  1  1  -  J  s-  :Ilion,  t:  he  was  not  iinhle  to  answer  for  his  conduct  like  any  seemed  to  base  little  scruple  shout  violating  Huth.  a  !o.  other  iaadividutal.  He  difterad  from  the  Gentlemen  on  his  side  of  stronge  s  t  confirmation  that  .  airs.  C  I STYLE=superscript  larke  had  exercised  no  io--  -,  the  House  on  lighter  matters,  but  he  thought  in  his  conscience,  due  interference,  is  ids  I  ile  1.,`  I  !Cr:  of  his  R  o  y  a  l  ili  a  h  ,n  e  .a  .  i  L  ..  e  ~.  •  i':  r  :?  i!  however,  that  the  Duke  of  York  bad  been  guilty  of  per  s STYLE=superscript  ona  l STYLE=superscript  authenticity STYLE=superscript  of  uII  kkli34  attire  l'&#34;it  di:Wiled.  1 STYLE=superscript  ;  11 STYLE=superscript  '  . STYLE=superscript  4'  l STYLE=superscript  1 STYLE=superscript  5 STYLE=superscript  en STYLE=superscript  '  Is, STYLE=superscript  4s!  {.-,,  corruption,  AddresS.  and  thetefore  ha  'amid  vote  fur  the  .original  he  thought  ►principally  showed  how  sovii  favours,  e.  tat.  to  to'.  .  •.  •  •  obtained.  French  i  levy  he  considered  :  t  very  sthp.ctouS  cage.  SIR  •TION4t  TtlfitON.  Midi  what  had  raised  this  coup-  •  lie  could  not  `  , STYLE=superscript  :ly  there  was  any  decided  proo:';  but  there  was  try  to  the  rank  which  it  occupies  in  the  seale  of  notions  I—What  ,  onething  rat  her  .trong.  M  i-s  Taylor  se%  i  tklice,  a  ii.l  sal;  e...0'  le  r.  ,  ,  •  ,  N  •  1!  I  `  : STYLE=superscript  v  ;%  .  ,4  '  l  i  .  k!,!  had  enlarged  its  internal  felicity  so  for  beyond  the  usual  measure  tors  also  she  is  ed  that  there  was  coti,tant  eorrt  . STYLE=superscript  sponf  i  leoee  on  I,li-  A  .-.  t STYLE=superscript  ,;,  of  DiroPean  happiarsa-eelas  exact  distribution  of  justice  to  litary  matter=  containing  such  ittlariaa;iou  as  ca  l  ..  .  i  a  s•  •  co  a  e  I  .  i  . STYLE=superscript  4-'  , STYLE=superscript  '  .  1  al„ta  all  its  subjects  alike.  After  commenting  on  the  benefits  re-  only  from  the  Doke.  Prom  Fileh  evietsacts  as  this  de  t%  at  tsailael  1  .  0  , STYLE=superscript  ..i,  ~  to  infer  that  the  Duke  !cum  of  the  elattlei  :11Itycl  ii  .Zti  I  i!St  II:  tl!,  1  '  '  r`;  suiting  from  the  impartial  . STYLE=superscript  exercise  of  the  judicial  powers,  he  a  ~,,  ~  , STYLE=superscript  a  •  examined  the  Duke's  lc;tet  to  the  House.  It  flamed  with  true  and  of  such  practices.  it  became  en  a.ciaaa,sto  alai  %'  on  !  la'  the  ►part  of  the  IlottNe,  for  the  Dreser:al;  , STYLE=superscript  .o  of  th•  It  char..c  er  British  spirit;  it  was  a  ttinnt  anti  dignified  tipaeal  to  the  y  i;  i•  t  ,  .•  ,-  14  equity  of  the  repteseasatives  of  Lae  statiota  wbutu  be  *us  repre-  ,  and  ardependesice,  'to  give  such  .1  vote  4.1  is  ould  rotlvii.ce  the  ,t  1  1,,  •i  .  „  .  ..•  .  .  ;  li"
