text
"MISCELLANEOUS  SERVICES.  The  !tousle  went  into  the  Committee  of  Supply,  and  the  Ord Ordinance  inance Ordinance  and  Miscellaneous  Estimates,  were  ordered  to  be  laid  be before  fore before  the  Committee.  Mr.  Asti  LEY  COO  era  said,  that  the  first  sum  which  stood  upon  the  Estimates  was  200,000/.  for  the  Extinct  ion  of  the  N  Debt.  The  next  was  600,0001.  for  the  purchase  of  !alipetre.  Thi  , STYLE=superscript  was  a  very  large  sum,  but  it  was  proper  to  lay  r.p  a  sufficient  store  for  prospective  use,  and  this  quantity  might  probably  serve  for  si  ir  seven  years  consumption.  The  third  mon  on  the  estimates  was  200,000'.  for  depots  of  artillery  - STYLE=superscript  and  ammunition.  These  three  sums  amounted  to  rather  more  than  a  million,  which  was  about  20.000/.  less  than  the  same  articles  amounted  last  year.  But  the  ordnance  expenditure  of  Ireland  was  last  year  increased  about  70,000/.  so  that  the  in increase  crease increase  upon  the  whole  would  be  this  year  50,000/.  The  first  resolution  which  he  would  propose  was,  that  there  be  granted  450,366/.  for  ordnance  stores  for  Great  Britain,  fur  1809.  General  TARRT.Eros  rise  to  put  several  questions  relative  to  the  military  affairs  of  the  country.  Sir  A.  W  ELLESLEY  spoke  at  some  length  in  reply  to  the  Hon Honourable  ourable Honourable  Gene's:J.  to  discussine  the  campaign  in  Portugal,  the  Ilonctira!  , STYLE=superscript  le  General  seemed  to  throw  upon  him  the  responsibi responsibility  lity responsibility  eo.f  the  Convention  of  Clara,  and  to  assert  that  that  measure  might  have  peen  preTented  by  his  ititerference.  Now  though  he  (Sir  A.  Wellesley)  did  flatter  himself  that  he  ettioed  in  some  degree  the  confidence  of  the  army,  and  had  been  favoured  with  confidential  intercourse  from  Ministers,  yet  he  soon  perceived  that  he  did  not  possess  the  confidence  of  those  superior  officers  who  were  appointed  his  successors.  He  drew  this  conclusion  from  having  proposed  two  distinct  measures  to  Sir  Harry  Bur Burrard,  rard, Burrard,  both  of  which  were  rejected  ;  and  from  the  very  first  con conversation  versation conversation  which  he  had  with  Sir  Hew  Dalrymple,  he  had  rea rea.aen  .aen rea.aen  to  suppose  that  he  did  not  possess  the  confidence  of  that  officer.  He  had  uniformly  stated,  however,  that  he  approved  of  the  principle  of  that  Convention,  though  he  thought  that  the  tore  :  of  some  of  the  articles  was  too  low  for  a  conquering  army  tqficree  to.  But  feeling  that  he  did  not  enjos  the  con  fidence  obis  superior  officer,  lie  thought  that  it  would  not  have  been  becoming  his  character,  either  as  an  officer  or  a  gentleman,  to  have  s.tt  up  his  standard  in  defiance  of  the  Commander  in  Chief.  As  to  the  campaign  in  Spain,  it  did  not  appear  to  him  that  Mi Ministers  nisters Ministers  were  at  all  responsible  for  the  line  of  retreat  adopted  by  Sir  J.  Moore.  General  TARLETON  spoke  in  explanation.  The  Right  Hon.  Gentleman  had  said,  that  he  expected  considerable  aid  from  the  Portuguese  cavalry,  us  reason  why  he  had  not  brought  from  this  country  a  greater  cavalry  force.  Now  he,  (General  'fade 'fadetoo)  too) 'fadetoo)  from  •his  own  experience,  could  have  told  him,  that  the  Portuguese  cavalry  were  the  most  ridiculous  force  imaginable.  A  Captain,  on  ireing  promoted  to  a  Company,  told  him  once  that  it  was  a  stiod  thing,  as.be  would  make  5001.  a  year  of  it  ;  but  th;  irsayaft  horses  were  employed  in  drawing  all  the  hack-  Voaches  iu  Lisbon.  Mr.  HUIRISSON  mid,  that  the  Vote  of  Credit,  and  the  dis•  posal  of  .the  sums  so  voted,  would,  in  due  time,  be  laid  before  the  'Louse,  wyen  Gentlemen  would  have  an  opportunity  of  en entering  tering entering  into  the  merits  of  the  question,  and  when  his  31ajehty's  Ministers,  he  was  certain,  wttuld  not  shrink  from  the  discussion.  The  resolution  was  then  adopted.  The  sum  of  4,170,0001.  was  then  noted  for  the  Ordnance  Ser.  *ice  of  Great  Britain,  and  the  sum  of  159,00  Q/.  for  the  same  Service  far  Ireland.  For  the  French  Clergy  and  Emigrants,  and  the  American  Loyalists,  180,3001.  For  expenses  of  convicts,  dc.  25,0001.  For  Printing  and  Stationary,  ke.  31.700/,  Tbeotbegr.umilutifual  sums  having  been  voted,  the  House  re re-  -- re-  i STYLE=superscript  siLum..;ekr.s-Awas  ordered  to  dyed  Monda•  _  he  rece.  on  -Y.  Seim  , STYLE=superscript  '  Mr.  forrim,  moved  im  -  7 STYLE=superscript  '  ri"
