text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  allowing  20,000  of  the  conscripts  to  have  beep►  detached  to  Spain  to  reinforce  his  armies  there.  Nobody  will,  however,  expect  from  raw  recruits  the  same  services  as  from  veteran  t  Trans.  The  following  is  an  estimate  of  the  force  of  the  Princes  of  the  Rhenish  Confederacy  :—Bavaria  has  about  36,000  men  ;.  Saxony  24,000  ;  Westphalia  20,000;  Wurtember  12,000;  Batlr•n  8000:  Berg  4000;  and  the  other  Princes  about  MON  ;—making  in  all  about  116,000  men.  But  what  a  motley  mass!  Wow  divided  in  interest;  and  how  Little  to  be  ctintided  in!  Is  every  particle  of  former  at attachments,  tachments, attachments,  policy  and  views  ctliiced  in  Germany  ?  Are  no  apprehensions,  no  suspicions  fostered  by  any  of  those  Princes  attout  the  probable  fate  that  awaits  them  ?  Are  Saxons,  Ilanoverians,  Hessians,  and  Franconinus,  together  with  the  Provinces  torn  from  Prussia,  deprived  of  every  recollection  of  the  past,  and  insensible  to  their  own  degra degradation  dation degradation  and  the  fate  of  their  former  Sovereigns  /  Do  the  distress  of  individuals,  the  straitening  of  their  means  of  subsistence,  the  annihilation  of  foreign  trade,  the  outrages  offered  to  the  community,  the  exactions,  luxury,  and  in ins:)lence  s:)lence ins:)lence  of  their  tyrants,  produce  no  lurking  . STYLE=superscript  discontent,  no  desire  of  change,  no  thirst  of  vengeance,  no  ardent  vvishes  for  the  ancient  order  of  things,  for  the  former  freedom,  the  former  plenty  /  To  imagine  that  the  Germans  arc  satisfiel  after  having  lost.  every  thing  that  commands  the  veneration  and  attachment  of  men;  or  that  their  Princes,  after  the  atrocious  ingratitude  which  BONAPARTE  displayed  towards  the  Royal  Family  of  Spain,  are  tranquil  and  satisfied  and  unsuspicious  in  their  present  state  of  vassalage,—is  the  most  extravagant,  the  most  unnatural,  and,  we  might  say,  blasphemous  opinion  of  mankind  ever  uttered.  From  that  quarter  no  sincere,  no  permanent  assistance  can  be  expected.  The  magazines,  formerly  established  on  the  Rhine,  must  likewise  be  replenished  ;  for  they  hive  been  transported  beyond  the  Pyrenees.  His  force  in  Germany  is  insufficient,  that  in  Italy  is  only  competent  for  its  defence  (for  the  intelligent  tyrant  never  allows  his  troops  to  languish  in  inaction,  when  their  presence  is  re requisite  quisite requisite  elsewhere);  to  attack  Austria,  therefore  with  any  prospect  of  success,  he  must  march  back  the  same  way  they  made  four  months  ago,  a  considerable  part  of  the  army  he  has  now  in  Spain.  Will  he  dare  do  it  ?  Will  he  sacrifice  his  claims  to  that  country  ;  and  leave  the  irri irritated,  tated, irritated,  proscribed  grandees  an  opportunity  of  organising  to  their  full  extent,  the  resources  and  patriotism  of  the  Spanish  Nation  ?  Is  he  ignorant  that  a  British  Army  is  ready  to  deice  the  conjuncture;  and  now  confident  in  their  superior  prowess,  and  instructed  by  experience,  more  than  suffi sufficient,  cient, sufficient,  in  canjunction  with  the  Spaniards,  to  overwhelm  the  force  he  may  leave  behind  ?  Is  he  not  sensible  of  the  murmurs  and  discontent  his  troops  will  manifest  in  con consequence  sequence consequence  of  these  marches  and  counter-marches  ?  Their  dissatisfaction  has  already  burst  out  to  a  degree  never  be before  fore before  expressed  by  the  French  Army.  All  these  considerations  are  not  to  be  overlooked  in  ad adverting  verting adverting  to  the  present  state  of  the  Continent.  And  we  press  it  again  and  again  on  the  minds  of  our  countrymen,  that  the  I  mulch  military  force,  their  resources  and  finances,  are  far  inferior  to  what  is  generally  believed.  Symptoms  totally  hostile  to  the  French  have  long  displayed  them themselves  selves themselves  in  e:ery  part  of  the  Prussian  provinces.  The  de departure  parture departure  of  the  King  and  gam)  of  Prussia  for  Petersburg!),  the  powerful  eloquence  of  that  illustrious  and  amiable  woman,  her  grievances,  her  complaints,  her  %inextinguish %inextinguishable  able %inextinguishable  antipathy.  to  Fraace,  her  fallen  state,  will  produce  a  'deep  and  salutary  impression  on  the  •  mind  of  Alexander  ;  and,  we  are  much  mistaken,  if  the  appearance  of  that  .illustrious  fugitive  at  the  Court  of  St.  Petersburgh,  with  the  talc  she  has  to  relate,  will  not  cause  Bonaparte  uneasi uneasiness  ness uneasiness  and  suspicion.  How  his  pride  must  be  mortified  at  their  declining  to  accept  his  permission  to  return  to  their  'capital  ;  and  his  fulminating  bull  against  M.  IrOpi  STEIN,  discloses  his  sentiments  relative  to  Prussia.  Such  are  our  hopes  in  case  of  a  war  between  France  and  Austria.  Such  are  the  resources  of  the  enemy  and  such  are  the  accumulating  difficulties  of  his  situa;  Lion.  The  means  of  Austria  are  ready,'  and  well  organised  and  concentrated  :  whilst  those  of  ber  oppo opponent  nent opponent  are  divided  and  diminished.  Her  troops  have  no  winter  campaign,  with  all  its  privations  and  horrors  to  support.  The  voice  of  her  subjects,  of  the  rest  of  Ger Germany,  many, Germany,  of  Europe,  is  in  her  savour;  and  if  she  falls,  she  falls  gloriously,  lamented  and  honoured,  and  only  one  year  sooner,  than  she  had  otherwise  done,  had  BONAPARTE  suc succeeded  ceeded succeeded  in  subduing  the  Patriots.  Her  doom  would  then  be  irretrievable  ;  and  her  imbecillity  and  infatuation  in  re remaining  maining remaining  so  . STYLE=superscript  long  inactive,  would  have  deprived  her  of  the  commiseration  and  sympathy  of  other  Slates.  She  would  sink  unregretted  and  unesteemcd,  when  the  FIAT  of  the  tyrant  would  have  pronounced  the  family  of  Habsburg  un unworthy  worthy unworthy  to  .reign.  From  the  latest  accounts  from  America,  it  appears  certain  that  the  people  of  the  United  States  are  deter determined  mined determined  to  obtain  a  repeal  of  the  Embargo  !Law,  or  op oppose  pose oppose  the  Government  in  the  execution  of  it.  Great  disturbances  have  already  taken  place,  but  there  is  reason  to  apprehend  others  of  a  much  inure  seri serious  ous serious  description.  The  Collector  and  Comptroller  of  the  Customs  at  Boston  have  been  compelled  to  relinquish  their  situations,  b,,ing  no  longer  in  a  condition  to  enforce.  the  laws.  The  military,  it  is  said,  actually  refused  to  tire  upon  a  tumultuous  meeting,  on  being  ordered  by  the  Commander  to  do  so.  But  the  most  important  fact  is,  that  the  Government  of  the  United  States  had  sent  a  mili military  tary military  force  to  New  Orleans,  with  Ale  view,  as  it  is  supposed  of  preventing  the  British  from  trading  in  the  Mississippi:  The  treaty  of  ISO:3,  between  France,  Spain,  and  America,  allowed  the  English  to  participate  in  the  trade  of  that  river  ;  and  if  it  should  now  be  disputed  by  the  Government  of  the  United  States,  war  with  Great  Britain  must  be  the  consequence.  P11_TB00011 From  that  quarter  no  sincere,  no  permanent  assistance  can  be  expected.  The  magazines,  formerly  establishe  d  on  the  Rhine,  must  likewise  be  replenished  ;  for  they  river  have  been  transnorted  beyond  the  Pyrenees.  His  force  in  i  Germany  is  insufficient,  that  in  Italy  is  only  competent  '  a  t  i  l  l  ie  treaty  of  I  '4o'3  b  L  France,  .we  ii  Spain,  and  America,  owed  the  Enirlish  to  participate  in  the  trade  of  that  and  if  •  t  s-t STYLE=superscript  '  7 STYLE=superscript  should  C STYLE=superscript  of  ;  States,  the  United  war  with  Great  Britain  must  be  the  consequence.  ~  1  .,  ~  for  its  defence  (for  the  intelligent  tyrant  never  allows  his  lIMIIIIINYMMIMIMMI+ROMOinniMM.  troops  to  languish  in  inaction,  when  their  presence  is  re-  AIR.  SHERIDAN.  qt  i  quisite  elsewhere)  ;  to  attack  Austria,  therefore  with  any  The  disgra  ceful  subject  of  our  reverses  during  the  Late  i  t  i  prospect  of  success,  he  must  march  back  the  same  way  campaign  was  discussed  in  the  House  of  Commons  last  they  made  four  mouths  agn,  a  cousiderable  part  of  the  army  he  has  now  in  Spain,  Will  he  dare  do  it?  Will  he  night.  Between  eleven  and  twelve  o'clock,  the  fire,  which  was'consuming,  that  magnificent  temple  of  the  mimic  •  sacrifice  his  claims  to  that  country  ;  and  leave  the  irri-  art,  Drury  Lane  Theatre,  had  reflected  so  strong  a  blaze  •  f  tated,  proscribed  grandees  an  opportunity  of  oreanising  to  • STYLE=superscript  of  light  into  the  inside  of  the  House,  that  a  very  marked  their  full  extent,  the  resources  and  patriotism  of  the  Spanish  agitation  was  visiWe  among  the  members  ;  and  the  Debate  Nation  ?  Is  he  ignorant  that  a  British  Army  is  ready  to  .  was  frequently  interrupted.  At  the  conclusion  of  Mr.  Acize  the  conjuncture;  and  now  confident  in  their  superior  Canning's  ehr.2  .  uent  and  patriotic  speech,  a  motion  was  made  1  e.  prowess,  and  instructed  by  experience,  niece  than  such-  ,L  to  adjourn  the  (louse,  as  a  mark  of  the  sympathy  and  1.  i  l  1  ,  cient,  in  ct  njunction  with  the  Spaniards,  to  overwhelm  the  interest  sr  hich  the  Members  felt  for  the  loss  sustained  by  , STYLE=superscript  I  force  he  may  leave  behind  ?  Is  he  not  sensible  of  the  '  •  Mr.  SuFainAs,  But  that  gentleman,  with  a  magnanimity  .  ,  •,..  murmurs  and  discontent  his  troops  will  manifest  in  con-  ,  •  so  conspicuous  in  almost  all  his  public  actions,  had  !  t  sequence  of  these  marches  amid  counter-marches  ?  Their  re-  mained  firm  and  immoseable,  at  his  post,  though  his  whole  t  •.  dissatisfaction  has  already  burst  out  to  a  degree  never  be-  fortune  was  vested  in  the  theatre.  He  declared  to  the  I  ,  fore  expressed  by  the  French  Armv.  House,  in  a  !Ow  tone  of  voice,  not  so  mech  occasioned  by  All  these  considerations  are  not  to  be  overlooked  in  ad-  the  great  loss  he  had  sustained,  but  finnn  the  strong  affect  1  veiling  to  the  present  state  of  the  Continent.  And  we  this  general  sympa  th  y  e3tiscdhims  th  the  press  it  again  and  ag  ain  on  the  minds  of  our  countrymen,  b  •  b  sufThrings  of  the  individual  may  be,  he  did  not  consider  ii  ;! STYLE=superscript  that  the  I'  rench  military  force,  their  resources  and  thances,  '  them  of  a  nature  to  enibarrass  their  proceedings  on  so  'are  leg  inferior  to  what  is  01  nerally  believed.  Symptoms  i  :-  great  a  national  question.  totally  hostile  to  the  French  have  long  displayed  theta  'Th  a  t  illustrious  Senator  hies  been  deprived  by  this  dread-  till  4 STYLE=superscript  .  selves  in  tnery  part  of  the  Prussian  provinces.  The  de- STYLE=superscript  ful  calamity  of  the  ►  whole  of  his  property  •;  and  in  quittino.  part  tire  of  the  King  and  Clneen  of  Prussia  for  Petersburgh,  es  the  House  of  Commons,  which  he  attended  in  the  exercise  the  powerful  eloquence  of  that  illustrious  and  amiable  •  •,  of  his  parliamentary  functions,  and  which  he  had  so  often  womaa,  her  grievances,  her  complaints,  her  unextinedsh-  enraptured  by  his  doqiießce,  asfenished  by  the  versatility  able  antipathy.  to  Fraece,  her  fallen  state,  will  produce  a  of  his  talents,  enlivened  by  his  wit,  and  ornamented  by  his  'deep  and  salutary  impression  on  the  •  mind  of  Alexander;  quitting  it  he  was  literally  a  beggar.  But  the  ._  and,  we  are  much  mistaken,  if  the  appearance  of  that  genitis,—on  public  and.the  government  cannot  disregard  th  e  e  great  and  illustrious  fugitive  at  the  Court  of  St.  Petersburgh,  with  His  conduct  during  has  ices  h  e  •  rendered  .  •  '  the  talc  she  has  to  relate,  will  not  cause  Bo  na STYLE=superscript  p  arte STYLE=superscript  uneasi-  important  sect•  the  mutiny  of  the  'Sore,  when  the  fortunes  of  the  Empire  'less  and  suspicion.  How  his  pride  must  be  morti  fi  ed  at  were  suspended  by  a  single  hair,  have  entitled  him  to  the  •  their  declining  to  accept  his  permission  to  velum  to  their  .  eternal  gratitude  of  the  country.  During  the  whole  tenor  'capital  ;  and  his  fulminating  bull  against  M.  Von  STEIN,  of  his,_public  life,  he  has  displayed  a  disinterestedness.  an  discloses  his  sentiments  relative  to  Prussia.  •  ,:i•  ardent  love  of  freedom,  an  attachment  to  the  constitution.  .  Such  are  our  hopes  in  case  of  a  war  b  etween STYLE=superscript  France,  s,  an  abhorronce  of  arb  i  trary  lic  a  fir  and  se  lfi  s  h  po  lic  y,  mness  of  and  Austria.  such  are  the  resources  of  the STYLE=superscript  enemy STYLE=superscript  i  i  t.,.  :  K,,iitl"
