text
"SAN.  15.  Non-Intercourse  Bill  be  passed  and  we  never  read  of  any  country  in  which  there  were  more  materials  of  a  revolu revolution,  tion, revolution,  than  there  are  at  present  in  America.  The  latest  accounts  from  spin,  we  arc  sorry  to  say,  I  contain  strong  allusions  to  the  treachery  of  some  SpauiMh  Generals.  It  is  stated  that  CASTANOS  and  I.T.smas  have  been  both  arrested,  and  that  MORLA  has  gone  over  to  the  enemy.  We  must  be  cautious  how  we  give  implicit  credit  to  these  accounts  of  treachery  ;  for  we  know  it  to  be  one  of  the  in infernal  fernal infernal  arts  which  th  6  enemy  has  most  successfully  emplosed  agaist  his  adversaries  ;  but  an  official  report  from  Geee  ral STYLE=superscript  O'N  ELL  to  PALAFOICI  immediately  after  the  battle  of  'Cu-dela,  plainly  imputes  to  the  incapacity  or  treachery  of  CAs-  T  ANOS,  A  the  toss  of  that  engagement.  In  either  case  he  de deserved  served deserved  to  be  arrested  ;  and  the  Spanish  General,  who  in  the  present  crisis  of  his  country,  can  be  guilty  of  visAing  the  head-quarters  of  the  enemy,  for  te  purpose  of  did  signing  any  thing  in  the  form  of STYLE=superscript  a  Capitulatiohn,  as  MORLA  ,  de deserves  serves deserves  to  he  punished  as  a  traitor.  Nothing  but  extraordi extraordinary  nary extraordinary  measures,  and  the  resolution  to  conquer  or  die,  can  save  that  -country,  We  learn  that  a  Convoy  has  bee  positively  appointed  for  Sweden,  which  is  to  go  to  Mars  n STYLE=superscript  trand,  if  G  o  ttenburgh  cannot  be  approached  on  theiraccun  of  the  ice.  We  unde  of  r rstand,  stand, rstand,  however,  that  though  port  of  the  shutting  the  Swedish  ports  against  British  ships  is  considered  un unfounded,  founded, unfounded,  or,  more  correctly  speaking,  premature,  it  is  understood,  by  persons  in  this  country  who  have  the  best  information  with  respect  to  Swedish  affairs,  that  the  Ar-  Inistico  between  Russia,  Sweden,  and  Denmark,  will  end  in  a  Treaty  of  Peace,  of  which  such  an  exclusion  will  be  be  one  of  the  conditions.  Accounts  have  been  received  from  the  Brazils,  of  the  discontinuance  of  the  armament  intended  to  enforce  the  pretensions  of  the  Infant  Don  Pedro  Luis  to  the  sovereignty  of  Buenos  Ayres.  A  negotiation  with  the  peoi,le  of  that  colony,  for  an  amicable  arrangement,  under  the  protec protection  tion protection  of  England,  was  in  very  forward  progress.  It  was  manag  ed  by  Sir  S.  Smith  , STYLE=superscript  who,  with  a  view  to  its  com completion,  pletion, completion,  was  about  to  proceed  in  person  to  Rio  de  la  Plata.  The  people  of  Buenos  Ayres  expressed  the  greatest  re-  '  spect  and  gratitude  for  the  conduct  oar  Englan,  in  thet  e  recen  t  circumstances  of  Spain.  The  ar  rangement  sought  at  first  was  one  of  perfect  independence,  both  of  France  and  of  the  Mother  Country  ;  and  though  the  suc success  cess success  of  the  Patriots  may  have  subsuently  varied  that  it  plan,  as  far  as  it  related  to  Old  Spai  eq STYLE=superscript  n,  it  is  likely  that  now  be  resumed  to  its  full  extent.  It  is  said  the  people  of  Buenos  Ayres  have  proposed  to  to  erect  their  country  into  au  independent  monarchy,  and  to  place  the  Crown  on  the  head  of  the  consolV  .rt  o STYLE=superscript  and  s  f  ter  of  the  Prince  Regent,  who  is  the  daughter  of  Charles  is  Ferdinand  VII.  Wednesday,  at  twelve  o'clock,  their  Majesties  and  the  Princesses  arrived  at  the  Queen's  Palace  from  Windsor,  soon  after  which  the  Prince  of  Wales,  the  Dukes  of  York,  Cumberland,  Susst!v,  and  Cambridge,,  upon  their  Majesties,  to  pay  their  respects.  At  two  o'clock,  his  Majesty  held  a  private  Levee.  The  following  bad  thc  honour  of  being  presented  to  his  Majesty  The  Earl  of  Plymout  h, STYLE=superscript  on STYLE=superscript  coming STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  his STYLE=superscript  title;  Brin•adier Brin•adieren.  en. Brin•adieren.  Houston,  on  his  marriage  ;  Brigadier-Gen.  Erskine,  upon  Lis  promotion;  Capt.  (;artit,  R.  N.  upon  promotion;  Capt.  •  Philliroore,  R.  N.  upon  his  promotion;  the  Earl  of  Liverpool,  o  coming  to  his  title  ;  Sir  Thomas  Trowbridge,  on  coming  to  bis  title,  and  return  from  •  Col.  Drinkwater  Jail  before  hi  Majesty  the  Eighth  Re Report  port Report  of  the  Coturniistott,.!rs  of  N.itary  Inquiry.  •  His  Majesty  hell  a  Privy  Coulieit,  and  .4ave  audiences  to  the  Duke  of  Portland,  and  the  other  Cabinet  Ministers.  The  Royal  Family  ty:pected  to  mania  In  town  till  !,  fter  the  celebration  of  the  (Ineeti's  birth-d:ty.  -  •  Vesteedav  tt  C  .,, STYLE=superscript  ari::)f  11211  th?  F.ast  T.  uheu  the  underinentioal  Commanders,  tc.00,-,  -  •-"
