text
"66  ';.,,i„  ;  ney  plundered  the  Portuguese,  they  insulted  their  prejudices,  and,  by  depriving  them  of  the  benefits  of  commerce,  took  every  thing  away  which  could  render  urvitude  tolerable.  The  people  of  Portugal,  consequently,  abominated  their  oppressors.  Exclusive  of  the  affection  they  must  have  for  us,  as  the  enemies  of  their  tyrants  ;  our  very  name  recalled  to  their  minds  the  influence  and  tranq►►illity  they  possessed  previous  to  their  subjngatiou.  'Trade•,  plenty,  punishment  of  injuries,  and  independence,  were  in  the  train  of  a  British  army  ;  and  they  hailed  its  appe7  ranee  as  the  signal  of  deliverance,  and  the  dawn  of  a  better  day.  From  the  picture  we  have  now  sketched,  which,  though  hasty,  may  be  relied  on  as  correct,  who  would  have  the  madness  to  prophecy  the  consequences  of  the  ill-fated  cam campaign  paign campaign  that  ensieid?  At  its  opening,  every  thing  was  auspi auspicious  cious auspicious  and  exhiiirating;—Soldiers  brave  and  willing  ;--the  Generals  in  iigent  and  enterprising;—the  country  well-dis well-disposed  posed well-disposed  and  I:Uendly  ;—whilst  the  direction  of  the  future  ope operations  rations operations  y.as  confided  to,  perhaps,  the  most  promising  Officer  in  our  service.  Sir  A.  Writ  Este  s, STYLE=superscript  possesses,  iii  a  high  de degree,  gree, degree,  a  •nion  of  qualities,  which  are  seldom  the  patrimony  of  one  man.  Ile  joins,  to  the  comprehensiveness  and  prudence  of  the  .7'tatesman,  all  the  attributes  of  a  soldier,  whose  life  has  been  spent  in  camps  ;  and  whose  history  is  a  series  of  victories  and  gigantic  enterprise.  The  foregoing  description  naturally  prepares  the  mind  for  those  signal  events,  which  form  a  new  epoch  in  the  annals  of  a  country,  and  lay  the  foundation  of  its  prepon preponderance  derance preponderance  and  glory.  It  is  true,  our  army  fulfilled  the  ex expectations  pectations expectations  of  the  public,  and  even  surpassed  them.  Two  victories,  at  lioleia  and  Vimeira,  established  the  superio superiority  rity superiority  o:•iur  army  for  bravery  as  Well  as  discipline  ;  whilst  the  arrangiinents  previous  to,  and  during  the  engagement,  and  the  boldness  of  the  operations,  placed  the  Commander  on  a  level,  for  professional  skill  and  enterprize,  with  any  Gene General  ral General  of  the  present  day.  Such  was  the  campaign,  and  such  the  intelligence  and  heroism  that  marked  its  progress.  'But  some  demon  has  marred  all  ;  and  every  thing  has  ter terminated  minated terminated  in  disgrace  arid  disappointment.  The  country  bas  been  robbed  of  her  glory,  the  honour  of  her  arms  sul sullied,  lied, sullied,  the  blood  of  her  sons  uselessly  shed,  the  Portuguese  have  been  alienated,  the  enemy  conveyed  in  our  ships  back  to  their  own  shores  ;  laughing  at  our  weakness,  and  de deriding  riding deriding  our  imbecility  ;  whilst  the  Spaniards  were  left  to  contend  alone  with  their  merciless  invaders,  and  were  over overwhelmed  whelmed overwhelmed  before  we  could  raise  an  arm  in  their  defence.  Let  us  suppose  ourselves  reading  the  annals  of  another  'people,  and  of  another  age,  we  would  immediately  ac accuse  cuse accuse  the  writer  of  exaggeration  and  perversion  of  facts  ;  or  should  he  attempt  to  develope  to  us  the  cause,  we  would  indignantly  fling-411e  book  away,  refusing  our  assent  to  so  extravagaut  an  idea,  as  that  a  nation,  in  the  most  awful  crisis  of  its  affairs,  should  be  so  infatuated,  or  so  dastardly,  _to  allow  a  few  individuals,  as  detestable  for  their  vices,  as  they  are  contemptible  for  their  imbecility,  and  repulsive  on  account  of  their  insolence  and  luxury,  to  mismanage  and  counteract  (ncry  measure  that  may  be  proposed  for  its  security  and  houour.  The  idea  is  so  repugnant,  that  if  the  experience  of  every  day  did  not  convince  us  of  its  rea reality,  lity, reality,  we  should  feel  a  mortification  in  assenting  to  it.  But  should  this  mismanagement  appear  in  our  own  af affairs  fairs affairs  ;  should  folly,  vice  and  presumption  thrust  themselves  i  nto  a  prointwents,  where  only  genius,  virtue  and  experi."
