text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  1.4  guns,  Capt.  Fouvau—On  shore  under  Madame.  Tnunerre,  74  goes,  Capt.  Clement  de  la  Itouciere—Nine  months  old,  never  at  sea.  Ago  ilon,  71  gnos,  Capt.  Maingon—Old.  Ville  de  Var Varsovie,  sovie, Varsovie,  SO  gliw,  Capt,  —.  Calcutta,  36  gout,  Captain  La  Tooie—Loaded  with  flour  and  military  stol  Fit  IC  AT  ES  Captain  Protean.—On  shore  near  Fle  d'Enot,  on  her  beam  ends.  Elbe,  Captain  etren  g  ier.  Captain  Le  Bigot.  liortonse,  Captain  Allgaud.  N.  B.  One  of  the  three  last  frigates  on  shore  under  Isle  Ma Madame.  dame. Madame.  Return  of  the  NAMES  of  (lyric:ens,  SEAMEN,  and  MARINES,  killed,  wounded,  and  missing,  belonging  to  the  fleet  under  the  Command  of  Admiral  the.  Right  lion.  hoed  GA  matEA  ,  Com Commander  mander Commander  in  Chief,  between  the  11th  and  14th  of  -April,  1809,  ,  inclusivet  CA  LEDO  NI  A.—Mr.  Edward  Fairfax,  Master  of  the  'Peet  ;  contusion  of  the  hip.  Flintoft,  acting  Lieutenant,  Tho Thomas  mas Thomas  Maddox,  able  ditto  ;  John  Nelson,  able  ditto  ;  John  Ellis  (9d).  able,  missing,  and  suppnsed  to  he  drownevlo  TliESEUs.—Richard  Francis  jewers,  Master's  Mate,  severely  wounded  in  the  head  and  hands  by  pow  der  in  the  fire-ship  ;  John  Podney,  marine,  wounded  in  the  scrotum  ;  Thoma  4  boy  wounded  in  the  head  and  arm.  I  ermit  attsr..—Henry  Crookman,  Captain  of  the•foreeastle,  killed;  Peter  Derouk,  Boatswain's  Mate,  ditto  ;  John  Margo  4  vick,  seaman,  ditto  ;•  James  Mason,  seamen,  severely'  wnundett;  John  Solomon,  Seaman,  slightly  wounded;  Mr.  GilbritT  Suir Suirgerm's  germ's Suirgerm's  Assistant  ditto;  Mr,Marsden,  Purser,  ditto  ;  Joll6oiiidon,  seaman,  ditto  ;  John  Sheridan,  seaman.  ditto  :  John  seaman,  ditto  ;  John  Wheelan,  seaman,  ditto  ;  Matthew  C:ond,  seaman,  ditto;  William  Meuclienton,  marine,  ditto;  John  Budd,  marine,  ditto,  REVENGE.  ••---  Henry  Johnson,  landmnn,  killed  ;  TfttLuCtan-.'  mer,  marine,  ditto;  Thomas  Pessey,  marine  bny,  ditto  .4'  Tonics  Garland,  lieutenant.  severe  contusion  of  the  shoulder  and  side  ;  James  Cooke  (1),  ordinary,  left  thigh  amputated,  and  a  very  dangerous  wound  of  the  right  font  ;  Thomas  Whittock,  land landman,  man, landman,  w  mind  in  the  brad  ;  Thomas  Tyler,  landman,  wound  of  the  I  e  ;  Denis  Grey,  ordinary,  riontusion  of  back;  Thatnas•Trig Thatnas•Trigworth,  worth, Thatnas•Trigworth,  ordinary,  contusion  and  worind  of  right  foot  ;  Charles  Chew,  marine,  right  thigh  amputated,  and  a  very  dangerouvand  extensive  wnnnd  on  left  leg  and  thigh  ;  Thomas  Berry,  marine,  contusion  of  thigh  ;  .Tithn  W  'Fenian,  marine,  contusion  of  shout-,  der;  Timothy  Pato,  marine,  contusion  of  thigh  ;  Gen.  Skell  3,  marine,  coniusimi  of  shoulder;  Joseph  Weeks,  marine  tiny,  wound  of  thigh  and  contusion  of  hack  :  John  Carper.  marine,  contusion  of  bead  and  arm  ;  James  Irtighes,  corporal  of  Ind-,  ries.  contusion  of  back  ;  John  Ward,  contusion  of  arm.  MED  ATO  n.—James  Segge.FS,  gunner,  killed  ;  James  Wei*.  dridge,  captaio,  eery  winch  burnt  ;  Nicholas  Brent  Clement?,  lieuten:int,  slightly  burnt;  James  Pearl,  lieutenant,  ditto  . STYLE=superscript  ;  Mi Michael  chael Michael  Gibson,  seaman,  ditto.  N.  B.  The  last  four  blown  out  of  the  Mediator  after  she  was  set  on  fire.  tin  A  T.TAR.  John  Conyers,  master's-mate,  very  badly  scorched  in  tlw  fare.  and  hands.  Total.  —  officers,  8  men,  killed  :  9  ()liken,  26  men  wounded  ;  1  man  mitiaing.---Total  46.  GA  MIII  ER.  Reeeived  Finee  the  above  was  written:  BE  .4  cu.r..—Janes  Sutherland,  seaman,  wounded.  .TN  A.—Rich.  W.  Charston,  midshipman.  slightly  wounded.  APRIL  23.  am  sorry  to  say,  that  1  raeived  a  severe  wound  in  the  shoulder  by  a  grape  sh.et,  w  hie'',  obliged  me  to  to  quit  the  deck  z  however.  tl:e  ser,ice  did  not  sutler  by  that  event,  as  the  suc suc(eNling  (eNling suc(eNling  lieutenant,  the  Non  George  Douglas  fought  the  ship  through  the  action,  in  a  most  gallant  meeker,  which  continued  about  one  hour  and  thirty-five  minutes.  The  ~enemy  having  f  am  the  beginning  pointed  their  guns  high,  we  were  by  this  time  a  complete  wreck  in  our  limits,  sails,  and  rigging.  Notwith Notwithstanding  standing Notwithstanding  the  situation-  thv  enemy  .was  then  reduced  to,  she  tried  to  effeet  her  escape,  which  1  knew  was  totally  impossible  from  the  state  of  her  .  riggitsg,  and  more  particularly  as  at  that  time  the  Superieur  (the  brig  1  before  mentioued)  hailed  us,  and  gave  us  information  that  the  strange  sail  ,inst  seen  to  leewatd  was  the  Lamina.  On  tho  Latona'b  coming  within  gunshot  of  the  eller  my  and  given  her  a  frvr  guns,  :Othich  she  returned,  and  slightly  wounded  a  L  few  of  the  Latpua's  men  she  i  mmediatel STYLE=superscript  y  brou STYLE=superscript  g  ht STYLE=superscript  to  on  the  starbuard  tack,  and  every  mast  went  by  the  board.  Site  proied  to  be  the  French  Frigate  La  3  unon,  of  41  guns,  and  $23  men,  commanded  by  Monsieur  Augustin  RosEeou,  a  Member  of  the  . STYLE=superscript  Cegion  of  Hononr;  out  from  the  Saints  only  four  days,  bound  to  France.  I  now  ' STYLE=superscript  detail  the  loss  sad  damages  sustained  by  his  Majesty's  ship  under,  my  comtPand.  The  Horatio  has  s  u  ffered.  but  little  in  her  'hull,  from  the  rea reason  son reason  already  given,  of  ,  the  enemy's  aiming  particularly  a,t  nur  masts  and  rigging,.  which  they  effected,  having  nothing  else  standing  hut  our  lower  Masts,  much  wounded,  and  completely  dismaraled,  all  to  our  foresail,  and  the  rags  of  our  mainsail.  the  number  of  officers,  seamen,  and  marines  lost  on  this  (Kea (Keasinn  sinn (Keasinn  to  *their  country  and  their  riends,  are  by  no  means  consi consideta'Sle,,  deta'Sle,, consideta'Sle,,  when  compared  with  the  dreadful  loss  or  the  enemy,  shall  hereafter  relate.  The  loss  on  hoard  the  Iloratia  consists  of  ;lir.  George  Grunter,  midshipman,  awl  six  seamen  killed;  Mr.  Andrew.  Lock,  boatswain,  and  twelve  *seaman,  badly  wounded  ;  Lieutenant  Richard  DlakeneY,  of  the  110,Y  11 STYLE=superscript  Marines,  Mr..  Robert  King,  waster's  - STYLE=superscript  ma  le, STYLE=superscript  six STYLE=superscript  seamen,  mat  two.  marines,  ,slightfy  wounded.  The  loss  of  tFe  enemy,  as  I  have  before  stated,  was  all  her  lower  mast  ;  her  hull  most  is  on onderfaily.  derfaily. onderfaily.  cut  up,  making,  in  consequence,  a  great  deal  of  watery wateryuntil  until wateryuntil  the  - STYLE=superscript  shot-holes  were  stopped.  The  loss  in  killed  and  wounded  amounted  to  one  hundred  and  thirty.  The  Captain  expired  soon  after  the  action  from  the  wounds  he  received.  The  gallantry  :end  good  conduct  oftheofficeis  awl  ship's  com com.  . com.  pany  under  my  command,  I  must  always  remember  w  ith  grati gratitude,  tude, gratitude,  and  were  I  to  enter  into  particulars  it  would  be  endless.  To  Captain  Ferrie,..,yrho  commands  the  brig  Superieur  (one  of  Sir  Alexander  Cochrane's.  squadron),  1  feel  much  indebted  for  the  very  gallant  manner  he  Behaved,  although  I  believe  he.  had  only  four  small  commades  on  board  ;  and  to  Captain  Pigot  of  the  Latnna  I  shall  ever  - STYLE=superscript  feel  thankful  for  his  exertions  and,  activity  in  erecting  jury  masts,;  difi  l  and  putting  th  e  priwe  iu  a  4  --  sea  worthy  state.  T  have  much  pleasure  . STYLE=superscript  in  informing  you  that  the  Junon  ap appears  pears appears  a  very  fine  -ship,  a  i  nly  three  years  old,  never  having  been  at  sea  before  'she  left  France,  about  three  mouths  ago.  I  have  the  honour  to  be,  &amp;v.,  (Signed)  0.  SCOTT.  Right  Hon.  Sir‘J.  B.  Warm),  Bart.  and  K.  B.  Commanderia  Chief,  &amp;c.  &amp;e.  &amp;c.  A  list  of  the  killed  and  wounWed  on  board  his  Majesty's  ships.  Horatio,  Latona,  and  Driver,  in  action  with  the  French  lei leigate  gate leigate  La  'futon,  on  the  10th  day  of  February,  1509.  HORATlO—Killed—Mr.  George  Gunter,  midshipman;  James.  Adman,  captain  of  the  foretop;  Charles  Chatterton,  able  ;  Robert  Lawder,  able;  Joseph  Williams,  able;  Samuel  John Johnson,  son, Johnson,  ordinary  ;  and  Francis  Miek,  boy.  Badly  wounded—George  Scott,  captain  ;  Manley  Hall  T)ixon,  lieutenant;  Andrew  Lock,  boatswain  ;  S  callow  Stone,  cox  , STYLE=superscript  swain;  John  Ellison,  quarter-master;  Thomas  Jones,  quarter quartergunner  gunner quartergunner  ;  John  Young,  able  ;  Charles  Brittain,  able  ;  Peter  Vaughan.  able  ;  Thomas  Korkham,  able  ;  Edward  Lin  . STYLE=superscript  ,(l,  nble  ;  Thomas  Allen,  ordinary;  John  Palmirt,  ordinary  ;  John  Mil  ler,  ordinary  ;  Thomas  Nead,  ordinary;  James  barton,  ordi ordinary  nary ordinary  ;  Lew  Vanderstain,  ordinary.  Slightly  wounded—Richard  Blakeney,  first  lienteaa.at  of  royal  mirines  ;  Robert  K  ing,  master's  mate  ;  Boyd,  quar quarter  ter quarter  master's  mate  •  James  .%ightiugale,  able  ;  Henry  Cailsted,  able  ;  WilliaM  johns,  ordinary  ;  Michael  Molley,  ordinary  Joseph  Shore,  marine;  Thomas  Young,  drummer.  1,  4.  TO  N  A—Slightly  wounded—Mr.  Hoop,  midshipman  ;  A.  Hayes,  seaman;  .  3.  Arrogan,  seaman.,  D.  Wright,  seaman  ;  J.  Murphy,  seaman;:  J.  Anson,  seaman.  •  Daly  a—Thomas  Colville,  wantan;  b  idly  wounded.  (Signed)  G.  SCOTT."
