text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  MARCH  12.  and  palpable  mode,  which  appeared  to  be  the  most  efficient  and  just.  in  the  animadversions  he  had  made,  he  did  not  once  advert  to  the  evidence  which  was  examined  on  the  subject  of  the  Orders  in  Council  during  the  last  Session,  nor  did  lie  quote  one  line  of  the  two  hundred  folios  laid  on  the  table  of  the  House  on  the  same  subject.  The  trade  of  England  was  certainly  in  a  great  measure  gone,  but  it  was  from  the  Decrees  at  Berlin,  and  not  fr  in  the  Orders  in  Council.  It  was  necessary  to  resussitate  the  commerce,  and  Ministers  were  oblig  ed  to  take  measures  fur  that  purpose.  The  trade  of  England  for  the  two  years  preced.  ing  the  10th  of  October,  1807,  was  certainly  but  nominal.  On  the  passing  of  the  Orders  in  Council,  however,  instead  of  a  further  continnance  of  so  disastrous  a  calamity,  the  trade  pro progressively  gressively progressively  increased,  and  the  prophecy  to  which  the  Honourable  Gentleman  alluded,  instead  of  failing,  was  fulfilled  to  the  utmost  extent  of  the  expectations  of  Ministers.  The  Orders  in  Council  became  therefore  a  measure  of  utility,  and  of  general  benefit.—  He  showed,  from  the  history  of  the  reign  of  Phiiip  11.  of  Spain,  that  measures  similar  to  our  Orders  in  Council  had  been  exe executed  cuted executed  by  the  Dutch  Government,  which  were  acq6iesceci  in  by  that  monarch  and  the  other  potentates  of  Europe  ;  and  from  hence  he  argued,  that  the  assertion  that  this  measure  of  ours  was  unparalleled,  was  untrue.  He  thought  that  the  propositions  of  America  were  illusive  and  inoperative.  We  did  not  want  to  drive  America  to  a  war  with  France;  that  was  a  mistaken  no notion  tion notion  entertained  by  the  Hon.  Gentleman,  all  we  wanted  her  to  do,  was  to  abstain  from  trading  with  France  and  other  countries,  as  long  as  they  interdicted  her  trading  with  us.  The  Honourable  Gentleman,  concluded,  by  observing,  that  the  Orders  in  Council  were  measures  of  retaliation,  perfectly  consistent  with  the  ho honour  nour honour  and  dignity  of  this  country,  and  compatible  with  the  duty  of  his  Majesty's  Ministers;  and  with  this  impression  on  his  nauti  li  he  could  never  consent  to  the  Honotwable  Gentleman's  &amp;notion,  in  as  much  as  the  rescinding  of  those  Orders  was  the  chief  object  aimed  at  by  him  in  bringing  forward  the  subject  be before  fore before  Parliament.  On  the  question  being  put,  there  appeared,  for  the  Address  83,  against  it  145—majority  6'4—Adjourned.  Tuesday,  March  7.  MUTINY  BILL.  The  Order  of  the  Day  for  taking  into  further  consideration  the  report  of  the  Mutiny  Bill  having  been  read,  On  the  motion  of  the  S  t  CAETARY  at  `VAR,  the  Bill  was  or ordered  dered ordered  to  be,  and  was  forthwith  recommitted.  Several  amendments  were  proposed  by  the  Secretary  at  War.  The  first  was,  to  exempt  from  billetting  those  canteens  which  were  not  fit  for  that  purpose.  Another  amendment  was,  to  exempt  waggons  emploved  in  ir,i;itary  purposes  from  the  opera operation  tion operation  of  the  Act  of  Parliament  by  which  the  relations  of  weights  and  the  number  of  horses  were  adjusted.  The  next  amendment  was,  to  coniirm  the  penalties  existing  in  Ireland  before  the  Union,  on  those  publicans  who  should  refuse  to  take  in  soldiers  billetted  on  them.  The  succeeding  amendment  related  to  the  ab absconding  sconding absconding  of  recruits.  The  next  amendment  was,  to  inflict  on  those  Commissaries  who  should  fraudulently  misapply  the  public  money,  a  penalty  of  WO/.  and  to  render  them  ineligible  to  serve  in  any  other  public  situation,  civil  or  military.  Several  other  clauses,  among  which  was  one  to  give  a  power  to  transfer  men  who  had  enlisted  , STYLE=superscript  into  any  regiment,  and  were  found  unfit  for  service,  to  any  other  regiment  that  might  be  thought  proper,  were  then  proposed  by  the  Secretary  at  War,  and  agreed  to.--Adjourned.  Wednesday,  March  8.  Lord  Fo  Licsro  NE  gave  notice  that  he  should,  on  Monday  ?e'ilight,  bring  forward  some  farther  Charges  against  His  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  York.  165  mast  ever  claim  my  warmest  thanks.  To  my  Honourable  Friend  (Mr.  Whitbread)  I  owe  much  ;  at  the  moment  I  felt  my myse!  se! myse!  f  a  good  deal  overpowered  at  an  earl  N  stage  of  the  business,  he  stepped  forward,  and  I  was  mulled  to  proceed  unt;sr  his  shield.  At  an  early  period  of  this  ins  sstigation,  I  had  the  mis misfortune  fortune misfortune  to  lose,  from  ill  health,  my  Ilonourable  Friend,  who  took  so  conspicuous  a  part  in  the  commencement  of  these  pro proceedings  ceedings proceedings  (Sir  Francis  Burdett).  To  ms  N  (role  Friend  (Lord  Folkstone)  L  owe  much.  —My  Nook  Friend  stepped  for forward,  ward, forward,  not  only  to  assist  me,  hut  he  placed  himself  in  the  same  situation  to  act  with  me  as  the  accuser  of  his  Ito)  al  Highness  the  Duke  of  York.  Tl  ., STYLE=superscript  e  conduct  of  his  Alajests  's  Ministers  upon  this  occasion,  must  convince  the  world,  that  as  long  as  any  thing  could  be  done,  they  had  given  very  great  credit  to  the  conduct  of  his  Royal  Highness.  Yet  it  is  the  duty  of  this  House  to  maintain  the  Rights  of  the  People,  as  it  is  the  duty  of  his  lat latjesty  jesty latjesty  s  servants  to  maintain  those  of  the  Crown.  And  I  think  the  event  of  this  Inquiry  will  be  developed  in  the  strength  of  the  ca.,ei  I  have  to  advert  to,  upon  which  1  rely,  to  prove  the  Charges  with  which  1  set  out  to  the  fullest  e  %tent.  I  have  brought  forward  the  exchange  between  Cols.  knight  and  Brooke.  It  ap appeared  peared appeared  that  some  delays  and  impediments  had  taken  place  in  that  exchange,  and  that  a  sum  of  200/.  was  offered  to  Mrs.  Clarke  to  expedite  the  exchange.  This  is  proved  in  the  first  place  by  the  evidence  of  Dr.  Thynne,  who  stated,  that  he  ha  d  applied  to  Mrs.  Clarke  respecting  the  exchange  of  Colonel  Knight  and  Colonel  Brooke;  and  for  the  purpose  of  inducing  Mrs.  Clarke  to  we  her  influence  with  the  Commander  in  Chief  to  expedite  the  exchange,  he  offered  her  the  sum  of  WO.  in  order  to  remove  those  impediments  and  those  delays.  Dr.  Thynne  is  corroborated  by  Mr.  Robert  Knight,  who  stated,  that  he  had  authorised  Dr.  Thynne  to  offer  Mrs.  Clarke  that  sum;  and  that  this  sum,  upon  the  exchange  being  effected,  was  paid  to  Mrs.  Clarke;  that  ap application  plication application  had  been  made  to  the  Duke  of  York  in  the  regular  way,  and  the  usual  official  answer  received;  that  great  delay  had  taken  place,  and  that  in  order  to  expedite  the  business,  he  had  applied  to  Mrs.  Clarke  to  use  her  influence  on  the  occasion.  This  evidence  is  further  corroborated  by  Mrs.  Clarke,  who  stated,  that  in  consequence  of  the  application  of  Dr.  Thy  n  ne,  she  had  applied  to  the  Commander  in  Chief  upon  the  subject  of  the  exchange;  that  she  gave  his  Royal  Hig  hness  the  Duke  of  York,  a  slip  of  paper;  that  the  Duke  asked  her  if  she  knew  the  parties,  to  which  she  answered  she  did  not,  but  that  they  were  to  make  her  a  compliment;  and  that  she  afterwards  re received  ceived received  the  sum  of  two  hundred  pounds.  Mrs.  Clarke  goes  on  to  state  farther,  that  upon  mentioning  the  subject  to  his  Royal  Ilil  o  rhness,  he  said  he  knew  the  subject  very  well  ;  that  they  had  been  trying  about  it  for  some  time  ;  and  it  appeared  from  the  documents  on  the  table,  that  Mrs.  Clarke  could  obtain  this  infor information  mation information  through  no  other  person  but  his  Royal  Highness  him himself.  self. himself.  Mrs.  Clarke  also  states,  that  she  shewed  the  VOW.  she  had  received  from  Colonel  Knight  to  his  Royal  Highness.,  and  that  the  day  after  she  received  it,  the  Duke  left  tow  n  for  Wey.  mouth.  Colonel  Gordon  corroborated  his  Royal  Highness's  go  ing  out  of  town  for  Weymouth  on  the  31st  of  July.  Mr.  It.  Knight  spoke  of  his  having  paid  the  'IOW.  early  on  the  day  after  his  brother  had  been  gazetted.  Mrs,  Clarke  further  ;IyF  i  ,  that  the  note  was  changed  by  one  of  the  -ersaats  of  his  Rim)  at  Highness;  and  Pearson,  Mrs.  Clarke's  butler,  states  positively,  that  on  the  night  before  his  Royal  Highness  went  out  of  town,  she  received  a  note,  which  was  changed  at  Mrs.  Bridgeroates,  the  pastry-cook's,  and  Mrs.  Bridge  titan  corroborated  this  fact.  There  appeared  a  great  confusion  in  part  of  Pearson's  testimony,  where  his  recollection  was  imperfect;  but  from  the  positive  tes testimony  timony testimony  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  from  the  recollection  •,f  Mrs.  Bridge Bridgeman,  man, Bridgeman,  that  the  man  came  to  her  to  get  the  change,  I  do  still  say,  there  is  every  reason  to  give  some  attention  to  the  facts  in  this  part  of  the  evidence.  Mrs.  Clarke  asserted,  that  there  was  only  two  or  three  days  from  the  time  of  the  application  for  the  ex,  change,  and  the  time  of  gazettieg.  But  Dr.  Thyane  and  Mr.  Knigt  spoke  positively  that  there  was  a  fortnight  or  three  weeks,  for  Mr.  Knight  went  three  times  to  the  Gazette  Office.  There  was  very  little  doubt  that  Mrs.  Clarke  made  the  applica application  tion application  to  his  Royal  Highness  immediately  after  Dr.  Thynne  had  spoken  to  her  requiring  her  dispatch.  Acid  after  this,  is  the  Duke  of  York  to  be  held  forth  us  being  wholly  ignorant  of  these  transactions)  and  can  it  he  supposed,  after  this,  that  Mrs,  Clarke  could  be  so  anxious  to  'keep  these  transactions  a  secret  from  the  Juke?  I  wilf  sbews  'freets.ine  documents  on  the  Table,  that  it  was  in  consequence  of  blks  t  iOarke  s STYLE=superscript  s  influence  that  thi  ex  change  was  expedited;  foil  ff.  e  entries  at  cox  and  Gres  wood's,  it  appears  that  Cottrel  ooke's  exchange  wvith  C  4  Knight  could  not  he  acceded  tom  ...  onel  Gordon  in  his  ovule's  says  that  this  Wry  uteaut  outhint  more  than  a  stoppap  6)"
