text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTFR.  JAN.  S.  *The  following  extract  of  a  letter  will  be  read  with  much  satisfaction  ;  v  ,  .8  .113  EN  CV  EN  TO,  DIM.  24.—The  brave  corps  of  English  cavalry,  whictrdl9emharked  at  Corunna,  and  which,  fitim  ibisplendid  and  ipilitary  atiphirance,  was  the  admiration  of  all  Who  beheld  it,  bas,  under  the  orders  of  Lord  *Paget,  covered  itself  with  lory.  On  the  iOthinst.  400  British  attacked  at  Sahagan,  900  trench  cavalry,  part  of  a  corps  of  from  12  to  13,000  men,  in  the  valley  of  Saldatias.  The  English  fought  with.  such  valour  that  they  put  the  enemy  to  flight,  making  260  prisoners,  besides  30  killed,  and  several  wounded.  The  following.'  Official  Bulletin  was  circulated  on  Mon Monday  day Monday  •  44 STYLE=superscript  Downing-street,  Jan.  2,  1809.  Letters  of  the  16th  DeCember,  dated  Turo,  have  been  re received  ceived received  from  Lieutenant‘Genetat  air  John  Moore,  who  was  then  forming  his  junction  with  Sir  . STYLE=superscript  lWid  Baird,  and  was  marching  with  the  hope  of  falling  in  with  411:rrshnl  Suult,  who  had  been  ordered  to  wake  himself  Hunter  of  .Leon  anti  Zamora.  Briga Brigadier-General  dier-General Brigadier-General  Chutes  Stewart,  with  part  of  the  18th  Light  Dra Drakoolls,  koolls, Drakoolls,  had  • STYLE=superscript  surprised  and  taken  a  detnehment  cavalry  and  infantry  at  Rueda,  with  about  20,0001.  in  valde,  of  cotton,  which  the  French  had  collected.  They  had  also  at:ken  a  patrole  Of  an  Officer  'and  22  Dragaons.  Wednesday  a  Court  of  Directors  was  held  at  the  East  In India  dia India  House,  when  the  following  Captains  was  sworn  into  the  command  of  their  . STYLE=superscript  respective  ships,  vie.  Captain  B.  Richardson  Albion.  China  direct  ;  Captain  Alexand  e  r  Nash,  Marchioness  of  Exeter,  Madeira  and  Bombay/  •  •  The  Lord  Mayor  ordered  the  price  of  bread  to  be  con continliZ  tinliZ continliZ  same  as  last  week,  viz.  Is.  2id.  the  gnarl  rn  loaf  ttf  4eaten,  and  Is.  lid.  household.  '  T  Vett...in  of  the  Navy,  corrected  to  the  Ist  of  January  edilitirise4  149  sail  of  the  hoe  in  commission,  SO  of  which  are  at  tea,'  21  fifties,  184  frigates,  186  sloops,  and  *94  timaller'vessels:  There  are  50  sail  of  the  line  building,  and  33  ordinail  and  preparing  for  service.  To'•  Tit  g  LAOIEs..S-  , STYLE=superscript  That  'a  good  wife  should  be  like  three  things  t  which  three  thing  she  should  not  be  like.  •  First,  she  should  be  like  a  snail,  always-keep  within  her  own  housee  ;  but  she  should  not  be  like  a  snail  to  carry  all  MAO  upon  her  own  back.'  '  •  •  Secondly,  She  should  be  like  qn  echo,  to  speak  when  she  is  spoken'  to,  hut  she  should  'not'lie  like  10  echo,  always  to  , STYLE=superscript  have  the  last  word,  •  •  Thirdly,  She  should  be  like  a  town-clock,  always  keep keeping  ing keeping  tinwand  regularity;  but  she  sho'uld•not  he  like  a  town townflock,  flock, townflock,  to  speak  'so  loud,  that  ail  . STYLE=superscript  the-toWu  nay  •  hear  her.  -  .  .•  •  .  •  A  very  ignorant  Nobleman  observing  one  day  at  dinner  a  person  eminent  for  hit  philosophical  talent's  intent  on  choosing  the  delicacies  of  the  table,  said  to  him-6.  What  !  do  Philosophers  love  dainties  Why  not  returned  the  scholar.  yon  think,  my  Lord,  that  the  good  66 STYLE=superscript  things  of  this  world  are  made  only  for  Blockhdada  ?!!  FATAL  ',aye  A  Dublin  P4per  received  on  Friday,  contains  the  follow following  ing following  article  :4—Melancholy,  indeed,  is  the  tragic  scene  we  are  about  to  relate,  particularly  as  it  has  involved  (in  a  neigh neighbouring  bouring neighbouring  counter)  more  than  three  families  in  the  deepest  p  in  judiee  to  the  feelings  Of  the  parties,  we  shall  not  men  tion  name.:  •  •  A  Gentleman,  the  youngest  son  of  a  beneficed  Clergy Clergyman  man Clergyman  of  high  respectability.,  paid  his  addresses  to  a  young  Lady  of  genteel  family  and  considerable  'fortune,  residing  ia  the  same  neighbourhood.  Her  uncle  under  whose  guar guardianship  dianship guardianship  she  was  unhappily  placed  had  determined  to  mar-  Ay  her  .to•what  he  called  up  to  rank,  and  chose  rather  to  see  her  splendidly  miserable,.  than  made  happy  with  a  genteel  competency..  t  The  Lady's  suitor  was  a  Physician,  some  time  back,  took  the  usual  degree,  with  promising  hopes  of  success  in  his  profession;  insurmo  , STYLE=superscript  able  were  the  obstacles  raised  by  the  uncle,  in  prevent  their  union  ;  he  remonsttatett  on  the  impropriet  of  placing  her  affections  on  a  person  „not  worth  shiOr  stud  WllO  could  Iwo  ao  ezpect4tions,  either  no,  i  •,  1  •  after,  of  any  paternal  fortune.  As  to  his  profession,  it  was  one  of  the  very  . STYLE=superscript  Worst,:  for  he  might  not  be  culled  in  upon  a  Guinea  Voyage  (as  be  termed  it)  for  years,  to  come  ;  and  in  hopes  of  alienating  her  regards  for  lover  ;  intro  duced  into  the  family  a  Major  in  the  army,  and  at  the  same  time,informed  her  she  was  to  consider  Mein  as  her  future  husband.  It  seems  he  did  not  possess  any  of  those  nice  feelings  of  honour  and  sentlibtlity  t  which  should  ever  be  the  characteristic  of  a  widier  t  hp  was  told  orher  predelictiun  for  another,  which  must  ever  prevent  has  prevailing  upon  a  heart  so  completely  devoted  to  who  Wati  then  in  Swami,  and  his  arrival  daily  expected.  Thiscandid  appeal  had  nu  elrect.•  In  fine,  the  weddinw  7  day  was  appointed,  the  Clergyman  arrived,  and  with  silent  quifering  composure,  she  allowed  the  fatal  ceremony  to  be  performed.  The  uncle,  however,  was  soon  convinced  ()Phis  inhumanity  —she  had  taken,  pre presence  sence presence  of  her  oWit  maid,  a  cup  of  tea  mixed,  as  it  after.  :  wards  appeared,  with  a  considerable  quantity  of  arsenic,  sihe  said  it  was  the  most  delicious  draught  she  had  eves  .  taken.  Towards  the  clOse  of  the  evening  she  got  mud,  indisposed,  and  in  a  few  hours  after  breathed  her  lust.  On  bar  dressing-table  was  found  the  follw,ing  letter  :  'Tis  over,  and  by  the  time  you  receive  this  I  shun  lie  ao  more;  yet  the  only  hour  that  I  cancan  ray  own  Kive  to  )no  s  the  only  one  that  the  hand  of  Death  hats  pot  a  right  to.  inter-.  ruin.  Should  I  live,  1  tremble  to  think  what  a  hti  - STYLE=superscript  ib,arl's  rage  in`iiht  have  indicted,  when  . STYLE=superscript  he  should  find  (instead  afar  happi happiness  ness happiness  he  expected)  a  cold  and  indifferent  heart.  Surely  it  was  it  zpolAttle  for  two  masters  to  share  my  atfertioh  :  had  I  sur survived,  vived, survived,  ydu  would  feel  that  you  had  robbed  me  of  what  not  all  my  fortuneindd  purchase,  or  the  world  have  power  to  bestow.  Ever  iinte  fWas  taught  to  form  it  wish,  it  was  that  of  acing.*  tender  wife  Anil.'  happy  mother.  From  the  time  I.  could  asso.  ciate  an  Idea,  I  bicked  upon  matrimony  as  the  source  from  which  we  weia*to*arive  finished  happiness  or  accumulated  mi misery.  sery. misery.  Under  this  idea',  alas  !  what  delusive  visions  of  felicity  did  not  the  accomplishrd  mind  and  literary  taste  of  Mr.  --  once  give  me  leave  to  form,'sifeh  as  no  turn  of  fortune  can  again  recal.  But  what  am  1  and  to  whom  ?—to  him  who  haa  robbed  me  of  my  peace  aiid  lit  swy•  life  Can  he  uow  dry  up  those  tears  which  he  himself  has  iiaqsed  to'flow,  or  can  he  heal  those  wounds  which  he  has  so  deeply  intlictedl—But  the  worst  is  past,  all  the  pall  Ons  that  have  Maar:wed:me  since  I  received  your  unfeeling  mandate,  to  forget  and  he  flithlOss  to  him  on  whom  my  heart  doated,  are  hushed,  and  w  hat  little  'Spirit  remains  will  soon  give  way  to  the  Supreme  Director  of  aft  ! STYLE=superscript  !  Maria  was  in  her  20th  year  To  the  beauty  of  her  form,  and  the  excellence  of  her  natural  disposition,  a  parent,  equally  indulgent  and  attentive,  (who  died  two  tears  agog,  had  40:ne  the  fullest.  justice.  To  accomplish  her  manners,  and  cultivate  her  mind,  every  endeavour  had  been  used,  and  they  had  been  attended  with  saccess.  Few  young  la ladies  dies ladies  attracted  more  admiration  ;  none  ever'  felt  it  less...—  She  died  when  every  tongue  was  eloquent  of  her  virtue,  when  every  hope  was  ripening  to  reward  them.  P11_TB00012 -  JAN.  S.  TILE  NATIONAL  REGISTER..  27  i STYLE=superscript  t  . STYLE=superscript  -  •  ---  -  -  ,  'The  following  extract  of  a  letter  will  be  read  with  much  after,  of  any  paternal  fortune.  As  to  his  profession,  it  i  aatisfaction  ;  was  one  o  f  th  e  very  wors  t,  f  or  h  e  mig  ht  no  t  b  e  culled  n  .„,  ~  IiEN  I:  v  ENT°,  D  ac.24.—The  brave  corps  of  English  cavalry,  upon  a  Guinea  Voyage  (as  be  termed  it)  for  vears  to  conic  ;  ~  whictrdl9emharked  at  Corunna,  and  which,  frOm  ibisplendid  and  and  in  hopes  of  alienating  her  regards  for  her  lover,  intr  o  spilitari  , STYLE=superscript  atiphirance,  was  the  admiration  of  all  iirlio  beheld  it,  duced  into  th  e  family  a  Major  in  the  army,  and  at  the  same  l'  bas,  under  the  orders  of  Lord  Paget,  covered  itself  with  lory.  time,informed  her  she  was  to  consider  !mil  as  her  future  i  On  the  iOthinst.  400  British  attacked  at  Salmon,  900  trench  husband.  It  seems  he  -  did  not  possess  ail  V  . STYLE=superscript  of  thesis  cavalry,  part  of  a  corps  of  from  12  to  13,000  men,  in  the  nice  feelings  of  honour  and  ientlibility,  which  should  valley  of  Saldatias.  The  English  fought  with.  such  valour  that  ever  be  the  characteristic  of  a  soldier  ;  hp  was  told  they  put  the  enemy  to  flight,  making  -469  prisoners,  besides  30  killed,  and  several  wourrded.  Q  t  predeliction  for  another,  which  Mnst  ever  iirevent  his  prevailing  upon  a  heart  so  completely  devoted  to  The  followink'  Official  Bulletin  was  circulated  on  Mon.  •  s-  ,  .  •w  ,  ,  Mr.--  sal)  was  then  in  Scotland,  and  his  arrival  1  I  „  day  •  ,•  ,  i  •  44  daily  expected.  Thiscandid  appeal  had  nu  effixt.•  lei  fine,  Downing-street,  Jan.  2,  1809.  the  we  ddi  ng-d  ay  was  appointed,  the  Clergyman  arrived,  Letters  of  the  16th  DeCember,  dated  Taro,  have  been  re-  ceived  from  Lieutenant‘Genetat  air  John  Moore,  who  was  then  and  with  silent  tinter*,  composure,  she  allowed  the  fatal  forming  his  junction  with  Sir.DaVid  Baird,  and  was  marching  ceremony  to  be  performed.  The  uncle,  however,  was  with  the  hope  of  falling  in  with  411:rrstral  Suult,  who  had  heel)  soon  convinced  oP  his  inhumanity  —she  had  taken,  ..in  pr  e  -  ordered  to  wake  himself  master  of  .Leon  and  Zamora.  Briga-  sence  of  her  own  maid  ;  a  cup  of  tea  mixed,  as  it  aner  7  ,  die-General  Chutes  Stewart,  with  parrot  the  18th  Light  Dra-  wards  appeared,  w  ith  a  considerable  quantity  of  arsenic  [  i  iOOll5,  had•surprised  and  taken  a  detachment  . STYLE=superscript  of  cavalry  and  She  said  it  was  the  most  delicious  draught  she  had  eves  ,  which  the  French  had  collected.  They  had  also  tbken  a  patrol,.  indisposed,  and  in  a  few  hours  after  breathed  rs STYLE=superscript  her  last.  of  an  Otticer  'and  22  Dragaons.  On  bar  dressing-table  was  found  the  follow  ing  lette  r  :  '  .  Wednesday  a  Court  of  Directors  was  held  at  the  East  In-  1  dia  House,  when  the  following  Captains  was  sworn  into  'Tic  over,  and  by  the  time  you  receive  this  I  shall  be  an  the  command  of  tfrir  . STYLE=superscript  respective  ships,  viz:  Captain  B.  more;  yet  the  only  hour  that  1  ean.call  ray  own  I  .  give  toy  no  *  i  Richardson  Albion,  China  direct  ;  Captain  Alexander  the  onl  one  that  .  the  hand  of  Death  has  pot  a  right  )(tinter-.  rapt.  S  h  ou  ld  1  live,  1  tremble  to  think  what  a  hnibarill  to  rage  .  Nash,  Marchioness  of  Exeter,  Madeira  and  Bombay/  •,  might  have  indicted,  when  he  should  find  (instead  of!ltr  kappi-  •  The  Lord  Mayor  ordered'the  rice  of  bread  to  be  con-  ocss  he  expected)  a  cold  and  indifferent  heart.  Surely  it  was  tins  ie4  , STYLE=superscript  the  same  as  last  week,  viz.  Is.  2ict.  the  quarWrn  itapot§itile  for  two  masters  to  share  my  trifittion  :  had  I  sur-  Inaf  of  wileatpri_  and  Is.  14d.  household_  0t.,..A  -..;:.•  ••.e...1•1  en.  0.1  .h-......•  Ss  el  A  N.F.hkAsA  •••••  .uf  evils  ..t  .  - STYLE=superscript  ..w.  •  .011"
