text
"EXAMINATION  OF  VR3.  CLARKE:  Q.  Did  witness  recommend  Cap.  Tonyn,  of  the  48th  Regt.  to  the  Commander  in  Chief  for  a  majority  in  the  31st  ?  A.  I  did.  Q.  Does  she  recollect  who  introduced  Capt.  Tonyn  to  her  for  this  recommendation?  A.  Either  Capt.  Sandea  or  Mr.  Dono.  van.,Q,  Was  she  to  receive  any  sum  of  Roney  if  he  was  ga..  zeted  ?  A.  Yes  :  I  do  not  recollect  the  stipulated  sum,  but  I  received  5001,—Q.  Did  she  make  known  to  the  Commander-in  Chief  when  she  recommended  Capt.  Tonyn,  that  she  was  to  re receive  ceive receive  a  pecuniary  compensation  for  so  doing?  A.  Yes.—  Q.  By  Mr.  Canxna.—Did  witness  ever  apply  to  General  Clavering  for  a  recommendation  of  Lieutenant  Sumner  ?  A.  yd.  —Q.  Will  witness  positively  deny  having  said  she  was  under-  .  the  protection  of  a  Mr.  Mellish  . STYLE=superscript  ?  A.  No.  I  never  represented  myself  as  tinder  the  protection  of  a  Mr.  Mellish,  or  any  other  person.—Q.  Did  she  ever  make  any  representation  to  that  ef:  feet  to  Gen.  Clavering  ?  A,  Gen.  Clayering  asked  me  if  I  knew  that  Turf  Mellish  was  setting  nil  with  General  Ferguson,  I  said  yes,  I  was  told  he  had  taken  leave  of  the  Prince  of  Wales  last  night.  Do  rejoined,  I  had  a  good  house,  and  the  beef  and  con,  -11.  -Q.  Did  she  ,t  to  ihnsh  these  P8_TB00012 •  •  -  .  _  Q.  What  situation  does  the  witness  hold  ?  A.  lam  assistant  night.  He  rejoined,  I  had  a  good  house,  and  the  beef  and  con,  ibilltary  secretor  Highness  the  Commander  in  tracts  went  on  Did  she  not  threaten  to  publish  these  raised  by  Col,  French  g  o  p  apers  ,  un  l  ess  hi  s  R  o  y  a  l  Hi  g  hn  ess  carne  into  her  terms  ?A.  No,  #llrnoitlt  the  ;&#34;'  fore  the  men  were  4p-  Q.  Did  she  ever  try  to  induce  Mr.  Donovan  to  join  in  assisting  provoil  of  .  '  g  General  ?  A.  lam  her  to  publish  the  papers  relating  to  this  transaction  ?A.  Nq.  •  11 STYLE=superscript  1  t.  and  usual  come,  and  but  I  will  repeat  what  he  said  to  me  is  the  •Secretary's  room  \t  , STYLE=superscript  tl/4  .  4  1k.  1 STYLE=superscript  44  9 STYLE=superscript  -  ``•'.lll7•  .- STYLE=superscript  1 STYLE=superscript  teis  •  '  Ater7  T.k.••l*  P8_TB00013 r.  •  •  '"
