text
"Si  E.,4•::  Notwithstandinz  public  affairs  are  so  far  from  being  in  a  bet+  ter  situation  at  present,  that  they  are  growing  every  day  more  and  more  desperate,  et  I  Could  not  satisfy  myself  with  being  Aileut  any  longer  ;  and  rather  chase  to  send  you  an  empty  letter,  than  not  to  send  you  any.—Jietmoth's  Letters  of  Cicero.'  '1'()  THE  SIY  OP  LEADEN-ILILL.  GE  VTI',II.VEN  1)IRIECT(111S.  Consistency  is  so  admirable  in  all  public  persons,  at  all  times  and  noun  ail  occasions,  that  you  must  not  wonder  if  I  now  offer  to  you,  astonishing  as  is  your  consistency,  the  tribute  of  my  humbl•ap  plans?.  Some  minds,  with  a  taste  different  from  mine,  would  aialiciously  delight  in  depreciating  your  eminence  of  cha character.  racter. character.  Instead  of  consistency,  they  would  brand  your  present  diziplay  of  public  virtue,  signalised  as  it  is  by  reciprocal  sympa sympathies,  thies, sympathies,  witb  the  epithet  of  confederation  ;  and  thus  deprive  ylu  of  the  elevated  consideration  to  which  you  are  so  conspicuously  and  di.tintly  entitled.  It  is  my  WlOl  honestly  to  appreciate  your  motives,  and  to  render  exemplary  justice  to  your  merits.  It  is  not  for  me,  like  plain  John  Brown,  in  his  Essay  on  Satire,  to  Point  back  to  minds  ingenuous,  actions  fair,  Till  the  sons  blush  at  what  their  fathers  were  !  What  indeed  have  1,  and  such  as  I,  to  do  with  those  fabled  ages  Ere  yet  'twas  quite  a  folly  to  be  just  ;  Ere  yet  'twas  beggary  the  great  to  trust  :  Vice  flutter'd  in  the  plumes  of  freedom  drest,  Or  public  spirit  was--the  publicjest  ?  Past,  if  ever  they  were,  are  such  fabled  ages;  and  past,  sap sapposing  posing sapposing  toey  existed,  the  romantic  individuals  who  then  peopled  the  nations  of  the  earth  !  New  things,  therefore,  in  this  new  world.  We  live  when  affairs  take  a  novel  course;  and,  as  my  friend  Cicero  wrote  to  his  friend  Varro,  what  can  I  do  better  you  know,  than  prudently  swim  with  the  current  of  the  times  You  appear  determined,  Gentlemen  Directors  !  nobly  actin  upon  the  vulgar  adage,  to  hang  together.  Even  the  salvation  of  your  entire  body  corporate,  which  seems  at  stake,  cannot  imince  you  to  part  with  one  single  member.  What  magnanimity  does  your  conduct  thus  exhibit—what  constancy  I.  There  still  is,  and  there  always  ought  to  be,  if  practicable  in  any  way,  come  honour,  as  they  hold  even  of  thieves,  among  all  descrip descriptions  tions descriptions  of  men.  There  is  nothing  like  sticking  to  the  last  plank;  as  drowning  persons  will,  it  is  said,  catch  at  twigs.  It  is  re really  ally really  unpleasaut  to  relinquish  official  situations  of  any  kind.  Jack  Ketch  himseli  would  take  alarm  at*  the  idea  of  being  ousted.  lias  quite  enough  of  defference  been  shown  by  you,  Gentlemen  Directors  !.  to  the  implied  opinion  of  the  Select  Committee  of  the  Imperial  Commons;  where  they  propose,  very  justly,  to  curtail  1/ic  pal.ronage  of  those  to  say  the  least  of  it,  are  proved  to  have  been  not  sufficiently  watchful  in  the  disposal  of  daring  their  adminiit  ration  of  your  eyf  tensise  concerns?  uopleasant  duty  of  increased  vigilance  is  it  seems,  as  the  same  Rept-rt  says,  now  to  yulrunaiie  will  cdnlitaiie  to  be  abused,  50  1•  of  at  1)  tli  le  lo  in  tr  •  R  P2_TB00015 be  performed  for  - STYLE=superscript  1  lung  as  no  Inct-ment  P2_TB00016 A]  P2_TB00017 nee  'tin  $2ll  6  6  P2_TB00018 Co  eni  P2_TB00019 Srii  SOl  P2_TB00020 re,  ttn  P2_TB00021 sel"
