text
"CO  Jutptt.  ------  The  Pulpit,  and  I  name  It  filled  With  sttletnn  awe,  that  hid,.  no-  well  beware  wh:tt  latent  I  touch  that  hob  thin;  stanch:  the  messenger  of  truth;  there  stint%  The  Le;ate  of  the  Saies!—llis  theme  diN  othcc  s  weed,  his  credentials  clew.--COW  PER.  lA:cm:Es  ON  illlli  LITURGY,  commenced  February  life  141  h,  and  on  March  the  ,'2lst  Terminated,  Bit  G.  ANDREWLS,  or  ST.  .1.1  4 STYLE=superscript  1  r  s•  C  RCIS,  EN  PICCADILLY.  rgon  considering  6 STYLE=superscript  the  coniniination  against  sinners,'  lunching  wnich  I  have  already  spoken,  Dl.  Andrewes  pro proceeded  ceeded proceeded  to  explaia  and  enforce  the  cuvßcitiN!i  of  wolf  E  s.  Sunday  Evening,  Februarg  ihe  `  :'  6th.—Of  this  office  of  our  church,  which  is  also  called,  perhaps  with  more  jus justice,  tice, justice,  the  Thankss  . STYLE=superscript  iving  of  Women  after  Child-birth,'  the  propriety  is  unquestionable.  Since  the  primal  sentence  smcc  awfully  denounced  against  tlAe  mother  of  all  every  age  has  seen  incontestible  demonstrations  of  the  in  which  woman  is  destined  to  bring  forth  children  and  therefore  rational  piety  itself,  were  divine  wisdom  still  silent  on  this  point,  should  suggest  the  duty  of  women  °Tering  . STYLE=superscript  up  their  hearty  to  the  Fountain  of  Goodness,  for  their  safe  deliverance  from  the  great  pain  and  peril  of  child-birth  As  the  sentence  vas  public,  so  ought  to  be  the  deliverance  from  its  inflic inflictions.  tions. inflictions.  1)r.  Andrewes  accordingly  reprobated  the  churching  of  women  in  private  houses.  Setting  aside  the  irreverence  of  this  practice  ,  it  is  clear  that  those  who  adopt  it,  and  the  slumber  of  them  is  by  far  too  great,  utterly  confound  together  places  distinct  as  churches  and  houses  ;  for  the  Thanksgiving  of  Women  after  Child-birth,'  conducted  thus  privately,  is  housing  rather  than  churching  women.  wish  it  were  for  me  to  agree  with  Dr.  Andrewes  in  other  things.  There  are  cases,  however,  in  which  it  is  better  to  chew  the  eligibility,  instead  of  insisting  on  the  necessity,  of  our  church  forms.  What  is  always  physically  right.  may  sometimes  he  poli politically  tically politically  wrong  ;  an:l  it  was  scarcely  possible  to  hear  Dr.  Andre:Wes  expatiaLing  on  the  biessings  of  fathering  a  nume numerous  rous numerous  progeny,  as  matters  now  stand,  without  fe,Tsig  come  trivial  objections  to  the  persuasion  which  he  -so  happily  laboured  to  disseminate.  Patriarchal  precedents  were  the  last  that  should  have  been  cited  in  confirmation  of  the  generative  benediction.  When  Lot  was  able  to  choose  i.`ocioni,  and  Abraham  to  settle  in  Canaan,  either  for  him himself,  self, himself,  each  might  feel  the  advantage  of  replenishine;  the  .earth  ;  but  we,  who  live  where  hemen  affairs  ace  not  ex exactly  actly exactly  in  the  same—state,  must  calculate  before  we  pro procreate,  create, procreate,  and  are  not  entitled  to  expect  that  the  goodness  of  providence  will  relieve  the  folly  of  our  improvidence.  Could  our  children  always  possess  the  gates  of  ti;(;se,  that  kite  them,  then,  as  under  the  first  law,  might  our  off offspring,  spring, offspring,  after  honoring  their  fathers  and  mothers,  rise  up  to  bless  us.  The  man  is  not  necessarily  happy,  thcrefore,who.  iias  his  quiver  full  of  them.  There  arc  days,  as  the  Son.  of  God  once  said,  when  it  i  4  'Woe  unto  those  that  give.  suck  !  Dr.  Andrcwes's  succecding  Lecture  was  oa  the  .  Order  for  4be  BURIAL  Of'-  TIIF  Sunda!,  Evening,  31rtrch  s.—Were  - STYLE=superscript  it  . STYLE=superscript  asked  rue  to  selnet  ,poEliLhlay  pportiou  of  our  National  Eitorfzri-which-shollY  it  its  fairest•liT,ht,  I  should  tuidoti4itiriq.ly  spec;.l%  Triti  Order  for  the  Burial  ()four  Dead.'  Such  is  the  seir  ranity ranityof  of ranityof  this  sacred  service,  such  the!.  inherentli-4  - STYLE=superscript  rtity  of  it,  t  lrtt,  separated  from  the  exlenal  triirk,  pbseryance,  it  appears  to  every  hatinfin.bisorti,  draws•  sighs  'fool  every  heart,  and  tears  into  every  e:ic.  Here  is  ei eiiiihiti.il  iiihiti.il eiiiihiti.il  the  glory  of  ilia&amp;  syseein  which  broon:ht  life-and  iiniuorliklity  to  light.  !•orrotvinz,  but  not  :is  I  ho  , STYLE=superscript  e  wilbout•  o.er  the  earthiy  rctLain  of  tleparted  ffietilithip,  the"
