text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.'  Elliston,  or  rather  nature,  by  passing  his  hand  over  his  e  .  )  es,  in  order  to  ascertain  whether  they  did  not  deceive  him.  His  re renforseful  nforseful renforseful  indecision  whilst  expecting  the  signal  to  murder  the  :Ring,  and  when  it  is  given,  the  anxious  care  with  which  he  locks  every  door,  and  listens  to  fancied  sounds,  gave  a  more  striking  picture  of  an  assassin  stealing  to  the  pillow  of  his  victim  that  bas  - STYLE=superscript  been  displayed  by  some  of  the  most  eminent  performers.  `l  l STYLE=superscript  4'  hen  the  bloody  deed  is  committed,  and  he  complains  to  Lad;  -Macbeth  that  he  could  not  pronounce  he  was  not,  however,  so  plaintively  sublime  as  Mr.  Kemble.  The  scene  in  which  he  shone  with  almost  unrivalled  lustre  was  that  of  the  banquet,  especially  at  the  moment  n  hen  he  seems  by  his  threats  to  drive  Banqua  s  ghost  from  the  singe,  and  on  its  disap disappearance  pearance disappearance  exclaims,  I  am  a  man  In  the  two  la  a  acts  his  spirit  rose  to  the  highest  pitch  of  passion.  lie  fought  at  the  close  of  his  guilty  career  as  Macbeth  ought  to  •  tight,  but  seldom  does,  with  the  wild  energy  of  despair,  which  derives  strength  from  its  very  hopelessness,  and  resolves  since  life  must  he  lust,  to  sell  it  dearly  to  its  conqueror.  When  falling  wounded  to  the  ground,  with  a  burst  of  rage  congenial  with  the  temper  of  the  tyrant,  he  hurls  his  SWOIII,  which  he  can  no  longer  wield,  at  his  foe,  and  expires  in  the  strongly  and  justly  expressed  agoniss  of  remorse  and  terror.  On  Friday  night,  Mr.  Young  made  his  first  appearance  in  the  character.  of  Beverley,  in  The  Gamester,  supported  by  Mrs.  Sid Siddons  dons Siddons  and  Mr.  C.  Kenible,  in  Mrs.  Beverley  and  Lawson  ;  and  ra rather  ther rather  encumbered  with  Mrs.  St.  Leger,  as  aharliAtte.  Cooke  as  usual  excelled  in  the  part  of  Stakaey  ;  and  Mr.  Thompson,  who  sve  strongly  suspect  possesses  more  talent  than  he  has  till  now  revealed,  in  the  humble  character  of  •  Dawson,  deli delivered  vered delivered  his  account  of  Beoerley's  arrest,  with  so  much  feeling  and  spirit,  as  to  receive  a  round  of  applause,  and  what  is  more,  as  to  deserve  it.  For  reasons  which  we  have  already  explained,  we  forbear  descanting  on  Mrs.  Siddons'  excellence.  She  seems  doomed  ne never  ver never  to  feel  the  blighting  hand  of  age,  and  we  only  point  out  the  beauties  and  defects  of  withering  and  perishable  beings  like  our-  •  selves.  Mr.  Young  equalled  our  expectations.  His  grief,  his  tender tenderness,  ness, tenderness,  his  remorse,  his  weakness  and  his  despair,  were  highly  na natural,  tural, natural,  nod  affecting.  fly  his  skill,  we  never  lost  sight.  of  the  nobleness  of  tleverley's  disposition,  which  ought  free  neatly  to  shine  through  the  veil  of  vice  that  overshadows  his  perfections;  and  which  burst  forth  in  his  warm  defence  of  Stukeley,  the  sacri sacrifice  fice sacrifice  he  makes  of  the  weak  remains  of  his  fortune  to  relieve  that  false-hearted  friend;  and  his  dignified  refusal  of  borrowing  money  from  his  old  servant  Jarvis.  Mr.  Young  not  only  possesses  the  faculty  of  expressing  the  loudest  intonations  of  passion  with  proper  effect,  but  his  voice  ill  s  ,fter,  though  not  perhaps  less  affecting  passages,  sinks  into  a  reeling  plaintiveness  that  steals  to  the  heart.  His  picture  of  mental  and  bodily  sufferings  in  the  last  scene  was  dreadful,  but  chastely  just,  and  in  every  part  of  his  performance  in  .11  arbeth  and  Beverley,  be  proved  himself  worthy  to  act  by  the  side  of  the  British  Melpomene.  The  recaptite;  which  the  public  granted  him,  and  which  he  so  highly  deserved  cannot  fail  to  awaken  all  the  energies  of  his  genius.  Emulation  is  the  nurse  of  excellence.  Were  we  to  place  him  now  at  the  head  of  our  tragic  performers,  we  should  be  guilty  of  flattery  and  would  deprive  him  of  a  stimulus  for  fu future  ture future  exertions.  We  know  his  cowers,  and  judge  him  according  to  their  extent,  and  not  to  those  of  others.  We  will  not  there therefore  fore therefore  foolishly  exclaim,  that  he  has  reached  perfection,  although  he  may  have  surpassed  some  or  even  all  his  competitors,  but  when  experience  and  study  shall  have  enabled  him  to  exert  the  full  force,  and  display  the  real  excellence  of  his  genius.  His  spirit  has  sometimes  betrayed  him  into  something  not  very  un un)ike  )ike un)ike  ranting.  Let  him  beware  of  this;  the  disease  which  if  taken  in  time,  may  be  easily  removed,  if  suffered  to  proceed  un unchecked,  checked, unchecked,  will  at  last  prove  incurable  and  mortal.  lAN.  15.  lie  prisoner  wai  one  of  them.  Anoth-r  witness,  of  the  nalLe  of  :Pe  Cams,  ho  gate  informatioti  to  the  above  officer  of  the,  proposed  burglary,  could  not  swear  that  the  prisoner  Ras  one  of  the  rol&amp;ers.  The  Jury,  after  some  deliberation,  found  the  Prisoner  Not  G  witty."
