text
"'  THE  nithNAL  RtGMTIII.._  .  Thk.  Lady  has  always  been  very  anxious  to  conceal  her  own  history,  pretending  she  is  of  a  genteel  family,  and  has  re respectable  spectable respectable  connections.  Her  husbatai  .it  is  true  is  of  a  respec respectahle  tahle respectahle  and  wealthy  famiry  ;  but  Mrs.  Clarke's  parents  were  in•a  much  more  humble  situation.  Her  father's  name  was  Far Farquhar.  quhar. Farquhar.  He  was  a  journeyman-printer,  of  that  branch  called  a  compositor,.  and  he  worked  many  years  in  the  house  of  Mr.  Hughes,  an  eminent  master-printer.  lie  occupied  a  house  (be (belonging  longing (belonging  to  NI  r.  Burnell,  the  stone-mason,  of  Cursitor-  Arco),  si situated  tuated situated  in  the  court  immediately  leading  out  of  Fetter-lane  to  Cursitor-street.  About  eighteen  years  ago,  Mrs.  Clarke  theft  about  fourteen  years  of  age,  resided  with  her  parent,  and  was  remarked  by  the  young  men  passing  through  the  court,  it  being  a  thorough  - STYLE=superscript  fare,  as  a  very  pretty,  sprightly,  gaily  disposed  wench,  she  being  very  fond  of  shewing  herself  in  the  court,  and  of  attracting  attention.  At  this  time  Mr.  Joseph  Clarke,  son  of  a  reputable  builder,  of  Snow-hill,  was  apprentice  to  Mr.  Burnell,  the  mason  in  Cursiturs=treet,  and  became  amazingly  enamoured  of  Miss  Farquhar,  Who  readily  received  his  ad addresses.  dresses. addresses.  She  eloped  with  him,  and  they  lived  together  about  three  years,  when  he  married  her.  She  conducted  her-elf  with  propriety,  and  they  lived  together  decently  several  years,  in  the  course  of  which  time  she  bore  him  several  children,  about  fear  of  whom  are  now  alive.  But  he  was  a  man  of  a  very  dissolute  life,  and-she  says,  she  never  entertained  a  design  of  leaving  him  tjll  she  was  twice  visited  by  the  effects  of  his  anmurs.  Mr.  Clarke  is  still  living,  a  wanderer  about  the  town,  on  a  small  annuity  paid  him  weekly,  pursuat.i  to  his  father's  o  ill,  being  all  the  father  left  him.  To  his  either  •four  or  five  children  the  father  left%  eight  thousand  pounds  each.  Mrs.  Clarke's  own  father  is  .dead.  She  had  two  bsother3,  one  of  whom  entered  the  army  as  a  common  soldier,  arid  is  supposed  t..%  be  dead,  and  it  is  believed  the  other  brother  is  dead  also.  She  had  a  sister.  Whether  the  mother  and  sister  are  livin;,is  unknown  ;  but  the  person  Mrs.  Clarke  calls  her  mother,  is  sup sup.  . sup.  posed  to  he  her  chief  adviser  . STYLE=superscript  and  confederate,•  though  no  rela relation.  tion. relation.  Mys.  Clarke  .livid:  with  several  Gentlemen  .  prior  to  her  acquaintance  with  .  the  Thike  of  York,  all  of  scram  eoMplain  of  her  extravagance  and  artfulness;  but  .admit  that  the  is  a  most  faseinating  woman.  •  At  the  sale  of  Mrs.  Clarke's  effects  in  flioucester-apiw,.  among  other  articles  whichcame  to  the  hamper;  was  an  in  kiln-  Aure  of  the  Queen,  set,  round  with  di:  maned,."
