text
"COMMOTIONS  AT  CADIZ.  CA  nvz,  Tyr:spa  Y,  FEB.  22.—Early  in  the  morning  of  this  day,  the  people  were  observed  in  great  commotion.  The  cause  was  their  aversion  to  the  proposed  introduction  of  the  corps  of  Poles,  Swiss,  and  other  foreigners  (enlisted  into  the  service  of  the  Spanish  nation  from  among  the  prisoners  made  at  the  capitu capitulation  lation capitulation  of  Baylen),  into  the  town  and  fortifications  of  Cadiz.  The  people  had  already  gone  so  far  as  to  take  up  arms,  with  the  view  of  resisting,  by  force,  the  entrance  of  these  foreigners;  at  the  idea  of  which  they  were  the  more  exasperated,  as  it  was  conceived  that  it  was  intended  to  take  away  the  arms  from  the  volunteers  of  Cadiz,  and  to  send  them  into  other  quarters,  as  had  been  proposed  at  Port  St.  Mary's  also,  which  they  were  detet detetmined  mined detetmined  to  resist  inevery  point.  Their  first  act  of  violence  was  to  stop  a  courier  charged  a  ith  dispatches  for  the  Marquis  de  Villa  from  the  Junta  at  Scville.  As  soon  as  information  of  these  proceedings  was  conveyed  to  - STYLE=superscript  the  commanding  officer  of  the  Bri British  tish British  troops  (Major  Gen.  Mackenzie),  he  sent  orders  to  the  ships,  forbidding  all  o  ffi  cers  who  were  on  hoard  to  go  on  s  hore, STYLE=superscript  and  those  already  in  the  town,  received  directions  not  to  inter interfere  fere interfere  in  any  manner  with  the  people.  About  one  o'clock  the  Marquis  de  Villel  was  arrested,  and  was  conveyed  towards  the  common  jail,  in  order  to  be  confined,  but  by  the  interposition  of  Padre  Moguer,  a  Capuchin  friar,who  possessed  great  influence,  and  who  undertook  to  produce  his  person  if  any  proofs  of  trea treason  son treason  should  he  found  among  his  papers,  or  otherwise  discovered,  ,1  0  its  to  ;area  him,  he  was  indulged  with  being  confined  in  the  Convent  of  the  Capuchins.  About  this  time,  in  consequence  of  a  representation  from  the  Governor;  Don  Felix  Jones,  to  the  Commander  of  the  British  forces,  staring,  that  it  would  tend  much  to  the  re-establishment  of  tranquillity,  if  a  distinct  assnrance  were  given  that  the  British  took  no  part  in  the  differences  subsisting  in  the  town  ;  and  in  compliance  with  a  request  that  some  Officers  who  could  speak  Spanish  should  be  sent  to  give  assurances  to  this  erect,  an  Aid Aidde-tamp  de-tamp Aidde-tamp  ado-  British  General  was  sent,  accompanied  by  others  who  mad  speak  the  Spanish  language;  anti,  in  the  presence  of  the  Governor  of  the  principal  Capuchin  friars,  and  others  who  had  iiithience-  a  distinct  assurance  was  given  that  the  British  troops  would  by  no  means  interfere  in  any  thing  that  related  to  the  domestic,and  private  concerns  of  the  people;  but  were  ready  and  determined  to  asskt  in  defending  the  town  against  the  couluwo  earthy  to  the  last  •These  assurances,"
