text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  The  question,  therefore,  is,  whether  such  an  addition  to  the  stock  already.  in  the  market  is  a  thing  to  be  wished,  or  depre deprecated.  cated. deprecated.  In  the  last  Session  of  Parliament,  the  time  of  the  House  was  taken  up  frota  day  to  day  with  the  complaints  of  the  West  Indian  Merchants,  and  it  was  at  length  deemed  necessary  to  faci facilitate  litate facilitate  the  consumption  of  sngar  by  allowing  it  in  the  Distilleries.  The  glut  in  the  market  was  so  great  that  sugar  was  become  per perfectly  fectly perfectly  unsaleable.  The  poorer  Piaaters  were  rained,  and  the  richer  were  only  enabled  to  continue  their  culture  upon  their  former  savings.  Under  such  a  state  of  circumstances,  the  Parliament  deemed  itself  called  upon  to  interpose,  and  as  we  have  before  sail,  open opened  ed opened  the  Distilleries  to  the  Sugar-growers.  This  was  a  serious  departure  from  principles  hitherto  deemed  fundamental.  It  has  always  hitherto  been  a  z  maxim  to  favour  the  English  Corp-grow Corp-growers  ers Corp-growers  in  preference  to  the  Foreign  Planters—This  system  was  now  done  away,  and  the  Farmer  and  Planter  put  on  a  level.  The  quantity  of  colonial  produce  in  the  market  so  far  exceeded  the  demand  as  not  only  to  justify  but  to  require  this  new  system.  In  such  a  state  of  things,  is  it  necessary  to  say  pitch  as  to  the  necessary  consequences  of  new  colonial  conquests.  If  the  market  be  already  glutted,  what  will  he  its  state  when  so  much  addi additional  tional additional  produce  is  thrown  into  it,—  when  the  competition  of  the  sellers  is  augmented  by  an  additional  island,  and  one-fourth,  per perhaps  haps perhaps  one  half,  is  added  to  our  already  bursting  warehouses.  There  is  another  consideration  of  some  importance.  The  an annual  nual annual  produce  of  Martinique  is,  as  we  have  said,  very  great;  but  its  actual  stock  on  hand  is  much  greater.  From  the  efficacy  of  the  general  bkckade  of  the  French  Islands,  by  the  English  cruisers,  the  Planters  of  Martinique  have  been  unable  to  send  their  stock  to  market--they  have  been  compelled  to  store  it,  and  it  is  not,  perhaps,  too  much  to  say,  that  the  warehouses  in  Martinique  must  probably  contain  the  produce  of  four,  five,  or  six  years.  All  this  quantity  will  now  be  released,  and  poured  into  the  English  market.—What  must  be  the  inevitable  conse consequence?—lf  quence?—lf consequence?—lf  there  was  before  a  glut,  will  not  such  a  produce  become  now  little  better  than  a  weed  ?—The  Dutch,  it  is  said,  annually  burn  their  spices,  to  prevent  an  over-abundance  in  the  market.  Something  of  the  same  kind  will  now  he  necessary  with  respect  to  the  English  Colonial  produce.  What,  in  fact,  is  to  become  Of  the  surplus  ?  Every  one  in  his  eagerness  to  sell  will  necessarily  under-sell  another,  the  necessary  consequence  must  be,  that  the  greater  part  of  them  will  he  ruined.  Under  certain  circumstances  plenty  is  lobe  wished,  but  under  others,  it  is  equally  ruinous  both  to  the  Planter  and  to  the  Pub Public.  lic. Public.  It  is  ruinous  to  the  Planter,  because  the  price  of  the  whole  is  jured  by  too  great  a  surplus.  Every  one  will  buy  at  his  own  price  where  there  are  more  who  want  to  sell  than  he  wants  to  buy—and  this  excessive  abundance  is  ultimately  equally  injurious  to  the  Public,  because  the  abundance  of  one  season  will  he  invariably  followed  by  the  scarcity  of  others— othersmany  many othersmany  will  abandon  a  cultivation  which  they  cannot  continue  ithout  the  prospect  of  ruin.  Upon  these  considerations,  we  must  panne  before  we  consider  the  conquest  of  Martinique  as  a  thing  of  any  public  value,  or  political  importance.  To  us,  indeed,  upon  the  first  appearance  of  thin  g  s,  it  seems  rather  a  conquest  than  an  acquisition.  We  are  open,  however,  to  conviction,  and  if  the  \Vest  India  Planters  are  satisfied,  we  shall  have  nothing  farther  to  say.  1  N  DICUS.  IMPERIAL.•  PARLIAMENT.  HOLE  OF  LORDS.  Frideg,  april  14.  Lord  Arca  LA  Nt)  wished  to  make  some  observations,  which  would  tend  to  elucidate  the  subject  of  the  motion  postponed  by  his  Noble  Friend,  Lord  Grey,  to  Friday  next.  He  would  not  on;  occupy  the  attention  of  the  Howe,  and  as  his  observations  were  unexpected,  he  would  not  require  either  an  immediate,  or  a  full  ansiyer  to  any  of  them-from  - STYLE=superscript  the  Noble  Secretary  of  State,  unless  his  Lordship  found  himself  perfectly  conyeleut  to  the  task  on  so  short  a  notice  as  the  present,  The  first  related  to  an  article  contained  in  the  treaty  of  alliaoce  concluded  with,  he  could  scarcely  say  whom  ;  for  at  the  o.ne  nt  %%  it  had  beet'  signed,  our  army  was  on  the  point  of  evacuating  Spain,  the  Supreme  Junta  were  dispersed,  and  Ferdinand  VII.  in  whose  name  it  was  concluded,  remained  a  prisoner  in  ihr  'hands  of  the  Frerch,  uncrowned  and  hopeless,  The  article  of  which  he  complained  hound  this  nation  to  acknoo  ledge  Ferdinand  VII.  his  heirs,  or  lawful  successors  (ascending  the  throne  with  the  consent  of  the  Spanish  nation)  as  the  wily  Sovereigns  of  Spain.  Ile  objected  to  the  former  part,  adikely  to  involve  the  British  Government  again  in  all  the  intricacies  of  Bourbon  policy  ;  and  to  the  latter,  as  ultimately  tending  to  acknowledge  Joseph  Bona Bonaparte  parte Bonaparte  the  lawful  King  of  Spain,  in  case  he  should  at  last  .  meet  with  the  approbation  of  his  n-w  subjects.  The  next  observation  related  to  a  promise  made  by  the  Noble  Secretary  of  State,  that  the  fullest  information  should  he  laid  before  the  House,  on  every  point  of  the  late  eampaigat:  Yet  one  of  its  most  oaportant  and  unfortunate  events,  the  surrender  of  the  squadron  at  Ferrol,  was  illustrated  only  by  two  letters  from  Admiral  Dc  Courcy  :  the  one  advising  Sir  David  Baird  to  protect  those  shit  s,  and  the  other  stating  their  loss  and  their  number,  His  Lordship  also  wished  that  a  more  detailed  :recount  of  the  lesser  sustained  by  our  army  in  Spain  should  he  prodored.  as  that  which  had  beets  given  was  evidently  evronenus  or  insufficient.  Upwards  of  - STYLE=superscript  top  own  were  acknowledged  to  have  perished,  or  been  taken  by  the  enemy  ;  but  a  strict  examination  of  the  subject  would  prove,  that  at  least  10,000  British  warriors  had  been  snatched  away  from  their  country.  The  last  remarks  he  woald  make  were  on  Mr.  Frere's  two  letters  to  Sir  John  Moore,  and  the  'mysterious  and  offensive  message  to  which  they  alluded,  and  the  nature  of  o  Welt  his  Majesty's  Ministers  had  not  yet  unfidded  to  Podia Podiamelit.  melit. Podiamelit.  lie  did  not  press  the  Noble  Secretary  for  an  answer,  if  he  were  not  prepared  ;  hut  yet  he  thought  the  subject  important  enough  to  deserve  his  attention.  The  Earl  of  Lis  - STYLE=superscript  en  Poo  it.  would  not,  at  the  present  moment,  give  any  answer  to  the  observations  made  by  the  Noble  Lord  They  were  mere  matter  of  argument,  and  would  probably  find  a  place  in  the  discussion  relative  to  theeampaign  in  Spain,  whit  it  would  take  place  on  Friday  next.  Lord  Gar.  y  did  not  look  on  the  observations  o  hielt  had  heeo  made  as  mere  matter  of  argument.  and  regretted  that  'ley  a:  e  i  not  been  answered.  Objecting,  as  he  did,  to  the  h.  31•  tags  treaty  of  alliance  concluded  with  :be  shadows,  not  too  teresea-  Wives  of  power  ;  still  he  thought  the  article  poiated  out  by  his  Noble  Friend  entitled  to  an  increased  polio')  hhele.  Ferdinand  VII.  was  acknowledged  in  it  the  only  Sovereign  of  Spain.  Had  dual  his  Majesty's  Ministers  admitted  the  justice  of  Bonaparte's  roeeedivg  - STYLE=superscript  s:  had  they  sanctiored  the  forced  re  r  signation  of  the  aged  and  unfortunate  Charles  I  V.:  As  to  the  losses  sustained  by  oar  army,  he  certainly  thought  they  greatly  exceeded  the  amount  given  in  the  returns  on  the  table.  Be  wished  to  have  an  account  of  those  sustained  by  our  troops  since  they  had  reached  our  own  shores.  Exhausted  with  fatigue,  and  wasted  by  disease,  every  day  since  their  retort)  the  funeral  hell  hail  tolled  over  their  corpses.  These  were  the  consequences  of  the  late  imprudent  and  ill-directed  campaien  ;  these  were  losses  of  which  no  computation  was  given  in  the  papers  now  be before  fore before  the  House.  _  _  _  Lord  BUCK  INGII  Mill  Inc  called  upon  the  Noble  Secretary  to  declare  whether  there  fisted  any  ground  of  objection  to  Sir  John  Craddock,  which  appeared  to  be  implied  hy  the  appoint appointment  ment appointment  of  Sir  A.  Wellesley  to  the  chief  command  in  hortugol.  The  Earl  of  Li  v  citron  t.  admitted  the  courage  and  ability STYLE=superscript  of  Sir  John  Craddock,  and  vindicated  the  appointment,  on  the  ground  of  his  Alaje..it)'s  prerogative.  fIOCSF.  OF  COMMONS.  Tue.7ilay,  April  11.  Nu  business  of  intportance.  IVednesday,  April  12.  Mr.  Alderman  Co  NI  nr:  presented  a  Petition  from  the  Worship,  ful  the  Company  of  Butchers  of  the  Ca:,  cif  London,  praying  against  the  removal  of  Sinith6eld  Market  .--  Read  ,  and  ordered  to  lie  um  the  table.  Cant  pbell's  Divorce  yr  ag  read  a  third  time  and  passed.  P3_TB00021 petters  is  augmeinea  uy  an  Haw  i  tonal  isiann,  arm  nue-iourtn,  per-  enemy  ;  but  a  strict  examinatian  of  the  subject  would  prove,  t  .,  haps  one  half,  is  added  to  our  already  bursting  warehouses.  that  at  least  10,000  British  warriors  had  been  snatched  away  There  is  another  consideration  of  some  importance.  The  an-  from  their  country.  The  last  remarks  he  woald  make  were  on  tl  .  i,  nual  produce  of  Martinique  is,  as  we  have  said,  very  great;  Mr.  Frere's  two  letters  to  Sir  John  Moore,  and  the  'mysterious  1 STYLE=superscript  but  its  actual  stock  on  hand  is  much  greater.  From  the  efficacy  and  offensive  message  to  tchich  they  alluded,  and  the  nature  of  ,  •  \lajecty's  Ministers  had  nni  yet  unfelded  to  Parini-  ii;  of  the  general  blnekade  of  the  French  Islands,  by  the  English  hid) STYLE=superscript  h STYLE=superscript  i  i STYLE=superscript  i  '  d  i  d  '  Secretary  for  an  answer,  if  i  cruisers,  the  Planters  of  Martinique  have  been  unable  to  send  I  l STYLE=superscript  l  i STYLE=superscript  t  e STYLE=superscript  •  t STYLE=superscript  i  l STYLE=superscript  v  t STYLE=superscript  . STYLE=superscript  e  re  n  e STYLE=superscript  at  ire  l STYLE=superscript  i  l STYLE=superscript  l  ot STYLE=superscript  re  l STYLE=superscript  :l  i STYLE=superscript  r  ‘ STYLE=superscript  h  s STYLE=superscript  but  vet  i STYLE=superscript  ht  le STYLE=superscript  tho  . STYLE=superscript  thought  th  e  . STYLE=superscript  subject  importaut  their  stock  to  market--they  have  been  compelled  to  store  it,  and  enough  to  deserv  e  i STYLE=superscript  his  attention.  it  is  not,  perhaps,  too  much  to  say,  that  the  warehouses  in  The  Earl  of  !AY  en  POOL  Would  not,  at  the  present  moment,  Martinique  must  probably  contain  the  produce STYLE=superscript  of  four,  five,  or  give  any  answer  to  the  observations  made  by  t  h  e  Noble  Lord  six  years.  All  this  quantity  will  now  be  released,  and  poured  They  were  mere  matter  of  argument,  and  would  probably  find  into  the  English  market.—What  must  be  the  inevitable  conse-  a STYLE=superscript  place  in  the  discussion  relative  to  thecampaigo  in  Spain,  whit  it  (pence  I—lf  there  was  before  a  glut,  will  nut  such  a  produce  wolild  take  place  on  Friday  next.  now  little  better  than  a  weed  ?—The  Dutch,  it  is  said,  Lord  Gar,  y  did  not  look  on  the  observations  w  Welt  h STYLE=superscript  i  d STYLE=superscript  h•a STYLE=superscript  m  become  ,Trade  as  mere  matter  of  argument.  and  regretted  that  tiwy  h  l  ,l  annually  burn  their  spices,  t  o  p  reven  t  an  o  ver-abundance  in  the  not  been  answered.  Objecting,  as  he  did,  to  the  ..kit-It•  ..r  ttve  , STYLE=superscript  market.  Something  of  the  same  kind  will  now  he  necessary  treaty  of  alliance  concluded  with  she  shadows,  not  tn..  I  ere-i.e.  ,  s  with  respect  to  the  English  Colonial  produce.  What,  in  fact,  wives  of  power;  still  he  thought  the  article  poiinea  alit  by  ii  to  become  of  the  surplus?  Every  tune  in  his  eagerness  to  sell  his  Noble  Friend  entitled  to  an  increasea  portion  or  lihtne.  Ferdinand  VII.  was  acknowledged  in  it  the  only  Sovereign  of  will  necessarily  under-sell  another,  the  necessary  consequence  •  nin  Si  i*  .  Had  then  his  .Majesty's  Ministers  admitted  the  justice  must  be,  that  the  greater  part  of  them  will  he  mined.  of  Bonaparte's  rrneeetlivg:  had  they  sane:int  - STYLE=superscript  ea  the  forced  re  r  Under  certain  circumstances  plenty  is  to  be  wished,  hut  under  signatinn  of  the  aged  and  unfortunate  Charles  I  V.:  /V-  to  the  others,  it  is  equally  ruinous  both  to  the  Planter  end  to  the  Pub-  I  losses  sustained  by  oar  army,  he  certainly  thought  they  greatly  lic.  It  is  ruinous  to  the  Planter,  because  the  price  of  the  exceeded  the  amoant  given  in  the  returns  on  the  table.  11e  ,  wished  to  have  an  account  a  those  sustained  by  our  troops  since  whole  is  jured  by  too  great  a  surplus.  Every  one  will  buy  they  had  reached  our  own  shores.  Exhausted  with  fatigue,  at  his  own  price  where  there  are  more  w  h  o  want  to  sell  than  he  and  wasted  by  disease,  every  day  since  their  return  the  funeral  wants  to  buy—and  this  excessive  abundance  is  ultimately  bell  had  tolled  over  their  corpses.  These  were  the  consequences  equally  injurious  to  the  Public,  because  the  abundance  of  one  of  the  late  imprudent  and  ill-directed  camintien  ;  these  were  season  will  he  invariably  followed  by  the  scarcity  of  others—  •  losses  of  which  no  computation  was  given  in  the  papers  nos  be-  -1 STYLE=superscript  fore  the  House.  .  •  many  will  abandon  a  cultivation  which  they  cannot  continue  Lord  BucKINGII  A  Still  Inc  called  upon  the  Noble  Secretary  i  w  ithout  the  prospect  of  ruin.  to  declare  whether  there  e::isted  any  around  of  objection  to  ale  Upon  these  considerations,  we  must  palm*  before  we  consider  John  Craddock,  which  appear  ed STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  be STYLE=superscript  im STYLE=superscript  p  lied STYLE=superscript  b STYLE=superscript  y  the STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  pp  oint- STYLE=superscript  4 STYLE=superscript  the  conquest  of  Martinique  as  a  thing  of  any  public  value,  or  meat  of  Sir  A.  Wellesley  to  the  chief  command  in  Portugal.  The.  Earl  of  [AYE:krone  admitted  the  courage  and  ability  of  political  importance.  To  us,  indeed,  upon  the  first  appearance  of  things,  it  seems  rather  a  conquest  than  an  acquisition.  We  Sir  John  Craddock,  ant  1  I  vindicated  the  rii»uintment,  on  the  are  open,  however,  to  conviction,  and  if  the  \Vest  India  Planters  ground  of  his  Majestv  s  prerogative.  are  satisfied,  we  shall  have  nothing  farther  to  say.  r  ,  I  I  N  D  ICT  S.  fIOUSF.  OF  COM  MONS.  ,_  •  1  .....  •  .  .  .  5  i  (  ' STYLE=superscript  !,  IMPERIAL  PARLIAM  ENT.  .........  m  ....—.  .  .  i  Tuesday,  April  11.  •  ,  ,  —....m.--  t  HOUSE  OF  LORDS.  .  Nu  business  of  importance.  .  li  ----  --asio.--•  k  ..  Y  Fridey,  april  14,  Wednesday,  April  12.  ti  d  Lord  Avrtr..A.  we  ND  wished  to  make  some  observations,  which  Mr.  Alderman  Co  m  n  -would  tend  t  o  el  uc  idate  the  ful  the  Company  of  Butchers  of  the  City  of  L  o STYLE=superscript  n  don, STYLE=superscript  g  enet STYLE=superscript  1  subject  of  the  motion  postponed  by  e:  presented  a  Petition  from  the  Worship  , STYLE=superscript  11  his  Noble  Friend,  Lord  Grey,  to  Friday  next.  He  would  not  .4  against  the  removal  of  Smith6eld  Market.—Read,  and  ordere  n STYLE=superscript  0  on;  occupy  the  attention  of  the  Howe,  and  as  his  observations  to  lie  on  the  table.  were  unexpecte  d  ,  h  e  wou  ld  no  t  requ  i  te  e  i  t  h  er  an  i  mme  di  ate,  or  T.  .  ld  was  read  a  third  time  and  passed.  ..._  ---"
