text
"CERTIFICA  TF:S----APII  11.  42'-).  John  Hindle,  William  Hindle.  Li  wrenre  any;  Ashton  Stansfield,  Lan Lancaster,  caster, Lancaster,  calico-printers.  Thotuomon  Pearson,  South  Sltteld:.:ltipu,riglit.  Joitathan  Crawford,  Charles-square,  lioxtou,  inouo‘-seri‘(•uct  .  friu  , STYLE=superscript  :t,  South Southampton,  ampton, Southampton,  dealer.  Zechariah  Skpiug,  Lucklersbury,  carpcuter.  John  Astoc,  Manchester,  liquor-merchant.  Extract  of  a  Letter  from  Monte  Video,  dated  on  the  11th  of  December  :  The  state  of  our  country  is  truly  afflicting.  The  Govern Government  ment Government  of  this  Town,  understanding  that  the  Viceroy  of  these  provinces,  Liniers,  was  suspected  of  disloyalty,  and  taking  •  warning  from  the  fate  of  Old  Spain,  (whose  ruin  was  brought  about  by  the  incapacity  of  its  chief  magistrates),  impeached  him.  before  the  Real  Audiencia.  This  superior  Tribunal  was  found  as  corrupt  as  its  head,  and  unanimously  voted  in  favor  of  the  Frenchman.  They  then  consulted  with  him  about  sacrificing  - STYLE=superscript  us  to  their  vengeance,  and  endeavour  to  deprive  us  of  our  upright  and  honest  magistrates,  and  adopted  other  most  hostile  measures  whereupon  the  people  here  asserted  their  rights,  and  volunta voluntarily  rily voluntarily  formed  a  Junta  'of  Government,  which  they  established,  in independent  dependent independent  of  the  Viceroy.  This  is  the  obvious  part  of  a  civil  war.  A  party  among  the  inhabitants  of  Ilueuos•Ay'res  being  misled  by  their  leaders,  and  having  some  forces  at  their  disposal,  entertained  hopes  of  Success  in  their  iniquitous  pro projects,  jects, projects,  but  we  confidently  hope  to  defeat  their  expectation,  pru prudently  dently prudently  waiting  till  the  Court,  to  whom  our  disputes  are  referred,  shall  have  given  some  decision.  In  the  mean  time  we  feel  that  these  proceedings  here  are  shameful  at  a  time  when  European  stain  is  so  oppressed  and  afflicted  ;  hut  we  have  the  -satisfaction  ot  knowing,  that  we  have  no  other  motives  or  interests  than  the  -relief.  of  Ferdin  a  nd  VII.  and  the  Spaoish  nation.'  I  shall  hereafter  remit  you  various  ducuuleida.rei,itt  . STYLE=superscript  tc  to  these  ateastu  es.  P14_TB00009 V"
