text
"Wednesday,  about  twelve  o'clock,  his  Majesty  arrived  at  the  Queen's  'Palace,  from  Windsor,  where  be  was  received  by  the  Dukes  of  York,  Cumberland,  Sussex,  and  Cambridge.  At  two  o'clock  his  Majesty  held  a  private  Levee.  The  following  had  the  honour  of  being  presented  to  his  :Majesty  :---  Ceneral  Sir  David  Dundas,  upon  his  being  appointed  Com Commander  mander Commander  in  Chief;  the  Earl  of  Orford,  upon  succeeding  to  hi,  title;  Major  Leith,  upon  his  promotion.  and  upon  hi;  return  from  Spain;  Capt.  Blake,  upon  his  promotion;  Lieut.-Colonel  Scott,  of  the  9Cth  regiment,  upon  his  promotion;  Alajor  N  ()mot,  of  the  85th  rifle  regiment,  -upon  his  promotion,  and  return  from  Spain;  the  Archhi,lipp  of  Dublin,  upon  his  arrival  in  England.  His  Majesty  held  a  Privy  Council,  at  which  Sir  David  Plinths  was  introduced,  and  sworn  in  a  Member,  and  took  his  seat  at  the  Honourable  Board  accordingly.  '  His  Majesty  gave  private  audiences  to  the  Cabinet  Minis Ministers  ters Ministers  present,  and  .Sir  David  Dundas,  the  Commander  in  Chief.  About  six  o'clock  set  off,  on  his  return  to  Windsor.  We  understand  that  Sir  D.  Dundas  is  not  to  hold  the  same  appointment  as  that  of  the  Duke  of  York.  Ile  is  only  to  be  Commander  in  Chief,  but.  not  Captain-Genera!  of  the  King's  Land  Forces.  -  Both  Houses  of  Parliament  are  expected  to  adjourn  on  Wednesday  next,  till  Thursday  sennight,  on  account  of  the  Easter  Holidays.  We  have  given  in  another  part  detailed  accounts  under  their  respective  dates,  of  the  causes  and  progress  of  the  late  disturbances  at  Cadiz.  They  will  he  found  to  corres correspond  pond correspond  with  the  principal  communications  we  have  already  Made.  They  are,  we  understand,  transmitted  by  a  per perion  ion perion  of  great  respectability,  who  was  a  witness  of  the  tran transactions  sactions transactions  he  describes.  We  believe  the  report  of  an  insurrection  in  Sweden  originated  in  a  circumstance  sufficiently  serious  in  its  con consequences,  sequences, consequences,  but  nut  so  fatal  to  the  repose  of  the  realm  as  has  been  apprehended.  It  seems  that  two  regiments  (of  Militia  as  they  are  called,  but  we  understand  the  whole  Swedish  army  is  of  that  description)  not  having  been  able  to  obtain  their  pay,  expressed  their  resentment  in  a  mutinous  man manlier;  lier; manlier;  and  subordination,  by  the  utmost  exertions  of  the  officers,  could  not  be  restored,  until  their  demands  were  .  fully  satisfied.  Their  arrears  being  discharged,  it  was  hoped  they  would  return  to  obedience.  The  Dutch  Papers,  as  well  as  the  Private  Letters,  coin coincide  cide coincide  in  stating  the  capture  of  his  Majesty's  frigate  Proser Proserpine.  pine. Proserpine.  She  was  taken  in  the  Mediterranean  by  the  French  frigates  La  Penelope  and  La  Paulincare.  From  the  French  official  accounts,  it  appears,  that  she  sustained  :an  engage engagement  ment engagement  of  three  quarters  of  an  hour  against  so  superior  a  force,  in  which  she  had  eleven  men  killed  ;  and  the  French  frigates  came  oft  without  the  loss  of  a  single  man  killed  or  'wounded.  French  modesty  A  letter  has  been  received  from  an  Officer  on  board  the  Lively,  •!aled  March  7,  then  off  Mamia,  a  small  place  on  the  TC.•;:t:,roast  of  Spain,  where  they  were  employed  in  nifordia  -g  assistance  to  the  Spanish  Patriots.  This  is  con conclusive  clusive conclusive  of  the  safety  of  the  Lively.  The  Treaty  between  Great  Britain  and  Spain,  we  under understand,  stand, understand,  was  sig  ned  Widnesday  ;  but  some  articles,  not  yet  precisely  adjusted,  are  left  for  future  arrangement.  It  is  stated,  that  ‘`.o  and  some  other  harbours  of  Gal Galliria  liria Galliria  are  now  open  to  English  ships.  The  communication  with  th  Ports  of  Asturias  has  not  bef7ai  obstructed  by  the  enemy,  since  his  appearance  on  the  Northern  shores  of  the  Douro.  P.  Don  Joze  Herida  who  was  lately  massacred  at  Cadiz,  was  a  cousin  of  the  Prince  of  the  Peace,  and  was  by  him  promoted  to  the  office  of  Collector  of  Public.  rents  and  Cus Customs.  toms. Customs.  He  was  a  man  held  in  general  detestat;on;  and  until  he  was  raised  by  his  cousin  to  a  trust  both  lucrative  and  respectable,  was  only  known  as  a  smuggler.  Tuesday  the  Lord  ;Mayor  ordered  the  price  of  bread  to  'be  reduced  half  an  assize,  or  Id.  in  Ihe  peck  loaf,  to  take  pi  jec  .  'ti  '  s  day.  The  quartern  loaf  of  wheaten,  is  thou  to  be  sold  for  Is.  21d.  and  household  Is.  10.  MARCH  26.  lit  the  House  of  Commons  on  Friday,  the  Serjeant  at  Arrnsreported,  that  Brig.-Gen.  CLAVER  !NG  was  in  his  custo custody,  dy, custody,  and  on  the  Motion  of  Mr.  WYNN  it  was  ordered,  with without  out without  any  debate,  that  General  Ct.avEnien  be  committed  !o  The  House  has  thus  shewn  the  purest  im impartiality  partiality impartiality  by  extending  to  two  men,  offending  in  the  same  degree,  and  different  only  in  rank,  the  same  measure  of  punishment.  This  proceeding  cannot  but  excite  the  highest  sentiments  of  approbation.  It  is  a  fact  no  less  singular  than  true,  that  as  his  Royal  Highness  the  ,)like  of  York  was  coining  up  on  Friday,  in  his  chaise  and  four,  from  Windsor  to  town,  one  of  the  leaders  fell,  and  was  drigged  by  the  other  horses  for  a  con cons:derable  s:derable cons:derable  distance.  The  carriage  was  soon  stopped,  and  :10  accident  of  a  serious  nature  ensued.  .But  it  took  place  almost  exactly  opposite  to  Mrs.  Clarke's  house,  in  the  King's-road,  Westbourn-place,  The  receipts  of  the  Drury-lane  company,  in  three  at  the  Opera  House,  amounted  to  tit(  s,im  of  2,:00t.  Since  the  memorable  year  1659.  after  the  deposition  of  Richard  Cromwell,  when  a  Council  of  (ieneral  Officers,  which  met  at  Wallingford  House,  arrogated  to  themselves  a  right  to  interfere  with,  and  to  over-rule  the  civil  power  of  the  State,  no  attempt  of  that  nature  has  been  made,  at  once  so  indecorous,  and  so.  unconstitutional,  as  the  late  Address  intended  to  have  been  presented  to  the  Commaader  in,  Chief,  by  a  club  of  General  Officers  met  fur  that  pur.,  pose.  REMARK  ABLE  FUNERAL.—On  Sunday  last  was  interred  in  the  burial  ground  of  St.  Martin-  in-the-Fields,  the  re-,  mains  of  Hugh  Hewson,  who  died  at  the  advanced  a:se  of  85.  The  deceased  was  a  man  of  no  mean  celebrity,  though  no  funeral  escutcheons  adorned  his  hearse,  or  heir  expeet•  ant  graced  his  obsequies,  He  was  no  less  a  personage  than  the  identical  Hugh  Strap,  whom  Dr,  Smollet  has  rendered  so  conspicuously  interesting  in  his  Life  and  Adventures  of  Roderick  Random,  and  for  upwards  of  forty  years  hat  4  kept  a  hair-dresser's  shop  in  the  above  parish.  The  de deceased  ceased deceased  was  a  very  intelligent  man,  and  took  delight  iu  recounting  the  adventures  of  his  early  life.  He  spoke  with  pleasure  of  the  time  he  passed  in  the  service  of  the  Doctor,  and  it  was  his  pride,  as  well  as  boast,  to  say  that  he  had  been  educated  in  the  same  seminary  with  so  learned  and  distinguished  a  character.  His  shop  was  hung  round  with  Latin  quotations,  and  he  would  frequently  point  out  to  hia  customers  and  acquaintances  the  several  scenes  in  Roderick  Random,  pertaining  to  himself,  which  had  their  foundation,  not  in  the  Doctor's  inventive  fancy,  but  in  truth  and  reality.  The  meeting  in  a  barber's  shop  at  Newcastle-upon-Tyne,  the  subsequent  mistake  at  the  inn,  their  arrival  together  in  London,  and  the  assistance  they  experienced  from  Strap's  friend,  were  all  of  that  description.  We  understand  the  deceased  has  left  behind  him  an  interlined  copy  of  Rode Roderick  rick Roderick  Random,  pointing  ocit  these  facts,  shelving  how  far  they  were  indebted  to  the  genius  of  the  Doctor,  and  to  what  extent  they  were  bottomed  in  reality.  The  deceased  could  never  succeed  in  gaining  more  than  a  respectable  subsist subsistence  ence subsistence  by  his  trade,  but  he  possessed  an  independence  of  mind  superior  to  his  humble  condition.  Of  late  years  he  was  emi:loyed  as  Keeper  of  the  Promenade  in  Vitliers  Walk,  Adelphi,  and  was  much  noticed  and  respected  by  the  inha inhabitants  bitants inhabitants  who  frequented  that  place.  The  difficulty  of  pronunciation,  considering  the  provin provincialisms  cialisms provincialisms  and  perversions  attached  to  our  mother-tongue,  is  incontestible  :  but  this  difficulty  may  be  ameliorated,  per perhaps  haps perhaps  removed,  by  vig  ilantly  perusing  the  columns  of  '  A  General  Pronouncing  Dictionary  of  the  Engaish  Language,'  &amp;c.  By  William  •  Enfield,  M.A.  Among  the  approvers  of  this  meritorious  compilation,  besides  various  Critical  Jour Journals,  nals, Journals,  are  to  be  found  the  saffrages  of  Dr.  Burney  and  the  Rev.  John  Evans.  It  may  gratify  the  Whip-Club  to  hear,  that  Francis  later,  a  noted  farrier,  has  rrcently  published  46 STYLE=superscript  Every  Man  his  own  or,  The  Whole  Art  'aid  Orn.  3 STYLE=superscript  '  I'll's  work,  we  are  assured,  has  already  preserved  the  lives  of  nearly  half  a  million  of  valuable  animals."
