text
"TIIE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  bruised  in  a  cruel  manner;  the  lad  immediately  alarmed  the  house  and  neighbourhood,  who  sent  fur  Mr.  a  surgeon  of  Windsor,  and  by  the  account  of  the  other  lodgers  in  the  house  and  neighbourhood,  they  heard  her  call  murder  several  times  about  the  hours  of  two  or  three  in  the  morning,  which  they  frequently  did  at  all  hours.  Suspicion  fell  upon  one  Bruin Bruinhall,  hall, Bruinhall,  a  rough-rider  in  the.  Royal  Horse  einards  (Blues),  who  lived  with  her,  and  had  cohabited  with  her  for  five  years  $  she  has,  been  a  married  woman,  and  has  left  behind  her  several  children.  Upon  the  evidence  before  the  Clroner  they  proved  his  frequently  beating  and  ill  treatinc  , STYLE=superscript  her,  therefore  they  paid  no  attention  to  her  cries  the  time  this  happened  ;  but  it  came  out  in  evidence,  that  Brumhall  was  left  with  her  at  two  o'clock  on  Wednesday  morning,  and  upon  the  corroborating  evidence,  and  that  of  Mr.  Mr.  Dent,  and  Mr.  Thomns,  Sur Surgeons,  geons, Surgeons,  who  opened  and  examined  the  deceased,  the  Jury  found  a  verdict  of  Wilful  Murder  against--  Brumhall  ;  and  ye-terday  moping  he  was  sent  off  to  Reading  gaol,  to  take  his  trial  at  the  next  Assizes.  The  Coroner's  Inquest  sat  from  ten  o'clock  in  the  morning  till  one  at  night,  before  they  could  go  through  the  evidence,  and  determine  on  their  verdict.  The  deceased  was  kicked  and  bruised  from  the  top  of  her  head  all  over  her  body  to  her  feet,  and  some  of  her  ribs  broken.  Tuesday,  a  dreadful  storm  of  thunder  and  lightning  passed  over  Bristol.  The  flashes  were  very  viv  id,  and  the  peals  exceeding'  v  loud  and  near.  A  thunderbolt,  or  electric  explosion,  fell  in  the  office  of  the  Bristol  (  '  Lizette  but  the  door  being  open,  the  elec electric  tric electric  matter  escaped  without  doing  any  serious  injury.  The  same  day,  the  electric  fluid  entered  the  chimney  of  a  house  at  W  hite hitehail,  hail, hitehail,  Bristol,  belonging  to  Mr.  Cardwell,  and  shattered  it  in  a  most  astonishing  manner,  blowing  out  five  windows  ith  their  frames,  and  breaking  the  shutters  to  pieces.  It  took  a  direction  from  the  top  to  thu  bottom  of  the  house,  entering  the  parlour,  burning  part  of  the  carpet  to  a  cinder,  and  otherwise  doing  considerable  damage.  Two  horses  were  also  killed  near  Dow  v vend.  end. vend."
