text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  who  had  long  served  their  country.  Ile  said  he  knew.  that  there  Ivits  a  public  otfice  in  the  city,  open  to  all  corners,  w  here  mili military  tary military  Commissions  were  oiljed  for  sale  at  the  reduced  price,  which  Mrs.  Clarke  used  !o  exact;  . STYLE=superscript  and  the  agent;  of  which  de  dared  that  they  -were  enabled  so  to  oiler  them  by.  Mrs.  Carey,  the  present  favourite  Mistress  of  Royal  Ili  haws;  and  further  that,  in  ad.ti  lion  to  commission,  in  the  army.  they  had  the  power  of  procuriog  .  ali  description:  of  places  in  the  Church  and  State---(3  toukit.  )  Na,',  those  Agent:  hal  not  hesitated  to  it  under  their  own  hand::  :  that  they  were  emploNed  by  two  of  the  fir-t  Officers  of  hiS  Maje  , STYLE=superscript  ty's  Acimini,traiino—(  .1  loud  laugh).—Mr.  Warde!l  concluded  by  moying•—  That  a  Commit  reel  appointed  to  iiivc  , STYLE=superscript  aigate  the  conduct  of  his  Ito  ilighness  the  Commander  in  Chief  with  re-pact  to  Promotions,  Lxchanges,  and  ppoiatments,  on  the  Stall,  Levies,  Sir  F.  Burt  D  ETT  secondea  the  'notion.  The.  Srca  TAR  P  at  \V  tn,  felt  great  satisfaction  that  at  lenfzth  an  opportunity  was  afforded  of  instituting  an  effechial  inquiry  into  the  grounds  of  tile  vat  ions  calumaies  and  misrepresentations  which  had  of  late  been  !•:o  indostrion-ly  circtilat:Nl  against  that  Illustrious  Personage.  halite:teed  by  this  feeling,  it  wag  Car  from  b-ing•  his  intention  to  give  any  oppo‘ition  to  the  motion  of  the  if  on.  'h-nt.  Ills  Royal  flightless  wri.4  perfectly  ready  to  meet,  and  extremely  anxion.•  to  court  the  inye!-tigation.  llaving  said  thus  m  u  ch  on  heir'  If  of  the  illustrious  object  of  the  motion,  and  with  a  view  to  itnpress  the  House  with  the  solicitude  felt  by  his  Roxal  Highness,  for  a  full  and  satisfactory  inquiry,  there  scarcely  remained  at&gt;  s  s  think  farther  for  hint  to  caN  .  From  his  acquaintance  with  the  Commander  in  Chief,  and  his  intimate  knowledge  of  the  manner  in  which  the  business  of  his  office  was  conducted,  that  the  charge?:  alledged  were  wholly  without  foundation;  that  the  facts  stated  b)  the  lion.  Gentletnan  could  not  have  had  existence.  Ma.  Yonne  said  that  it  was  with  great  concern  he  had  heard  the  motion,  119  less,  as  it  regards  the  Illustrious  Person  against  whom  it  was  directed,  than  the  Honourable  Gentleman  who  had  brought  it  forward.  Never  had  any  Member  of  that  Houle'  taken  upon  himself  a  more  serious  responsibility.  Ile  would  admit,  however,  that,  if  the  Hon.  Gentleman  could  skew  that  he  had  any  prohahle  grounds  for  his  charge,  he  was  entitled  to  the  thanks  of  the  House  for  having  brought  it  forward.  At  length  they  could  reach  in  a  tangible  shape  some  of  those  libels  which  had  for  some  time  past  been  more  assidnously  and  pertinaceonsly  circulated  than  at  any  former  period  in  this  country  so  prolific  in  libels.  lie  hoped  that  the  House  would  do  Justice  to  itself,  to  the  public,  and  to  the  illustrious  House  of  Brunswick  ;  and  that  the  llon.  Gentleman,  if  he  should  not  prove  his  facts,  might  at  least  shew  that  he  had  some  probable  grounds  for  his  conduct.  Sir  FRANCIS  Iltt  am:TT  having  never,  either  in  that  lionse  or  elsewhere,  talked  of  the  Duke  of  York  with  disrespect,  he  had  risen  only  to  state  the  groundsof  his  having  seconded  the  motion,  for  having  brought  which  forward  he  thought  the  lion.  Member  entitled  to  the  thanks  of  the  House.  The  CHANCELLOR  of  the  I:New:wick  observed,  that  the  llou3e  was  unanimous  as  to  the  propriety  of  a  serious  and  solemn  inquiry  into  charges  affecting-  the  character  of  his  Ito)al  igh igh'less;  'less; igh'less;  and  the  doubt  was  with  respect  to  the  manner  in  w  filch  that  inciniry  should  he  taken.  He  could  state  upon  the  authority  of  the  Illustrious  Person  himself,  given  him  at  the  only  °ppm.-  tuuity  he  had  of  consulting  with  him  upon  the  subject,  that  the  most  ready  course  of  prosecuting  the  inquiry  would  be  the  most  agreeable  to  him,  and  that  he  deprecated  nothing  so  much  as  a  course  that  would  impede  the  final  result.  That  Illustrious  l'er l'er-sonage  -sonage l'er-sonage  wished,  like  any  other  subject,  to  be  put  publicly  upon  his  trial,  and  to  stand  acquitted  or  convicted  upon  the  case  that  may  be  made  out.  Be  felt  the  inconvenience  of  a  Parliamentary  inquiry  ;  but  these  inconveniences  must  he  encountered  on  so  iu►-  portant  an  occasion.  Before  he  could  sit  down,  he  must  observe  that  the  Hon.  Gentleman  had  stated  the  existence  of  an  office  where  places  in  Church  and  State  were  sold,  and  that  two  Mem Members  bers Members  of  Administration  were  openly  said  to  he  connected  with  it.  The  lion.  Gentleman,  after  such  a  statement,  was  bound.  and  he  called  upon  him  to  mention  the  persons  in  Administration  said  to  give  their  sanction  to  that  office.  Ile  could  assure  the  Hon.  Gent.  and  the  house,  that  no  care  should  be  omitted  on  his  part  Threadnt  edle•street  ;  that  the  name,  of  the  agents  in  it  ucie  .  lla‘lop  and  Pollen,  and  that  the  person.;  in  Adminl,tration  paid  t‘i  h~  connected  ith  thorn  were  the  Lord  Chancellor  and  the  Duke  of  Portland,  (  outrageous  absurdity  of  the  latter  part  of  this  statement  caused  the  House  to  be  convul‘cd•acith  ter  ).  The  question  that  a  Committee  be  appointed,  was  then  agreed  t,  nem.  con.  On  the  motion  that  it  he  a  Committee  of  the  whole  Howe,  Lord  Fot.KsroN  oppft:ed  it,  on  the  grottnd  of  the  great  in inconvenience  convenience inconvenience  that  he  hail  himself  witnes•cd  from  the  pro•;eention  of  inquiries  in  that  manner,  and  submitted  it  to  the  light  Hon.  Ceatleinan  that  any  mode  was  better  than  that  propived  by  hitt,.  Mr.  Secretary  CA  N  N  G  contended  that  the  Inq  uiry  , STYLE=superscript  hould  he  by  a  Committee  of  the  whole  House,  which  would  unite  .ti-pals  h  with  publicity,  and  that  such  a  proceeding  - STYLE=superscript  alone  w  sJited  in  the  importance  of  the  subject,  the  rank  of  the  party,  ur  the  so solemnity  lemnity solemnity  of  such  an  investigation.  lie  united  in  giving  thanks  to  ,the  lion.  Gentleman  who  had  brought  this  question  for  w  ;  but  whether  the  charges  should  he  proved  or  not,  he  w:is  of  opinion  that  infamy  must  rest  somew  here.  L%  er  inau  must  he  sensible  of  the  cowardliness,  the  baseness,  and  the  wretchodness  of  the  caluouiies  which  had  been  vented  in  ibe  publications  of  the  day,  during  the  last  six  months,  against  the  Duke  of  York.  Itauk  was  like  sex,  and  those  in  the  highest  station,  like  women,  should  not  be  attacked  with  :inch  slanderous  mate  volence.  _  _  The  question  was  then  put  and  carried.  The  CHANCELLOR  of  the  EXcHEQUER  proposed  that  Wed Wednesday  nesday Wednesday  next  shuuld  be  appointed  for  the  examination  of  W  ses  by  the  Committee,  which  was  agreed  to."
