text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  I  6  at  halt  past  four  in  the  afternoon,  and  was  maintained  with  great.  obstinacy  and  bravery  on  both  sides  till  ten  at  night;  and  though  the  conflicting  armies  were  within  twenty  paces  of  each  other,  the  enemy,  I  mention  with  pride,  was  repulsed.  and  obliged  to  pass  the  .night  upon  the  snow,  exposed  to  the  inclemency  of  the  weather,  without  making  a  single  etl'ort  to  extricate  themselves.  EXTRACT  FROM  AN  OFFICIAL  REPORT  OF  GENERAL  KLERC KLERCVEER,  VEER, KLERCVEER,  COMMANDER  IN  CHIEF  OF  THE  NORTHERN  ARMY,  IN  FINLAND,  DATED  HEAD-QUARTERS,  AT  ULEADORGH,  NOV.  25:  Though  I  have  been  compelled,  by  the  vast  superi superiority  ority superiority  of  the  enemy's  forces  to  evacuate  the  Province  of  Uleaburgh,  which  independently  a  this  consideration,  I  must  !vote  done  from  the  total  want  of  provisioas  and  pro-  '  vendei-;  yet  *1  derive  no  small  consolation  from  the  reflec reflection,  tion, reflection,  that  1  have  pitied  time,  pending  the  negociatios  for  au  Armistice,  and  sacceeding  in  obtaining  ten  clear  days  to  evacuate  the  capital  of  this  province.  The  interval  I  have  employed  in  cutting  and  sawing  the  ice,  and  fitting  out  small  craft  for  the  conveyance  of  stores,  &amp;c.  and  have  no  doubt,  from  the  arrangements  that  have  been  made,  but  the  whole  of  the  artillery  and  ammunition  will  he  saved.  The  check  which  the  Russians  experienced  at  Wirat,  is  wholly  attributable  to  the  skill  and  bravery  of  Col.  Reuters Reuterskold  kold Reuterskold  and  General  Alderkreutz,  the  latter  of  whom  encou-,  raged  his  troops  by  his  presence  and  example  ;  and  . STYLE=superscript  your  Majesty  will  be  pleased  to  allow  me  to  state,  that  this  General,.  notwithstanding  the  very  critical  situation  in  which  your  Majesty's  army  was  placed,  displayed  his  con consummate  summate consummate  abilities  as  a  neg,ociator  of  the  Armistice,  in  re rejecting,  jecting, rejecting,  under  every  disadvantage,  the  unjust  and  disho  nourable  proposition  of  the  enemy,  and  by  extricating  our  troops  from  impending  •  GIBRALTAR  EXTRACT  Or  A  LETTER,  DATED  DEC.  2.  Admiral  Purvis  is  at  present  here,  with  the  A  tlac  and  Kent  ;  but  I  should  suppwe,  if  there  is  the  least  probability  of  an  at attack,  tack, attack,  our  Government  will  send  out  large  reinforcements.  It  is  to  be  regretted  something  is  not  done  with  the  Spanish  Lines  the  Forts  St.  Phillip  and  St.  Barbara  might  he  now  easily  de de.  . de.  stroved,  or  rendered  useless  to  an  enemy  fora  consilterable  length  of  time  t  .indeed;  it  is  thought  here,  by  some  of  our  people  in  power.  that  the  works  might  be  so  altered  as  to  act  against  Spain  if  conquered  by  France,  and  become  an  outwork  of  this  fortress.  44 STYLE=superscript  The  garrison  coatlaues  abundantly  supplied  with  every  this  p•Lrt  of  S'puin  proditcrs;•  in  return  they  take  front  Its  till,  the  British  manufarturrs  they  require.  Sales,  hots  ever,  I  tins  derstlnd  Ire  nw  considerable  as  would  have  been  expected  conliden  , STYLE=superscript  e  will.  government,  or  in  the  political  state  of  tbt  country  is  the  _  JAN.  1..  PROVINCIAL§.  An  unparalleled  instance  of  cruelty,  superstition,  and  awful  visitation,  occurred  a  short  period  since  in  the  Hundred  of  Hoo  ;  a  farmer  of  the  name  of  Fenner  lost  a  considerable  quantity  of  poultry  by  a  distemper  with  which  they  were  seized;  and  hav-  .  ing,  some  time  prior  to  their  mortality,  received  a  present  of  a  duck  from  a  friend,  it  was  supposed,  from  her  laying  dun-co dun-coloured  loured dun-coloured  eggs,  that  she  had  been  bewitched  by  an  elderly  woman  in  the  neighbourhood,  and  that  such  was  the  cause  of  the  losses  sustained.  In  order  to  prevent  a  recurrence  of  similar  disasters,  and  to  break  the  enchantment,  it  was  determined,  by  an  igno ignorant  rant ignorant  and  superstitious  female  servant,  to  burn  the  ill-fated  but  innocent  victim  alive;  which  horrid  resolution  she  one  morning  carried  into  practice,  by  putting  the  poor  animal  in  an  oven,  and  burning  a  faggot  of  wood  over  her;  which,  though  it  com completely  pletely completely  consumed  alt  her  feathers,  did  not  extinguish  the  vital  'park  :  on  the  following  morning  she  repeated  her  cruelty,  not notwithstanding  withstanding notwithstanding  which  the  poor  dusk  still  retained  animation  :  on  the  third  day,  being  determined  to  effect  her  barbarous  intention,  she  had  recourse  to  the  following  shocking  expedient—she  set  tire  to  a  large  faggot  in  the  even,  and  when  it  bad  completely  caught  the  flame,  she  put  the  already  tortured  body  of  the  poor  duck  on  it,  and  confined  it  down;  this  soon  terminated  its  exist existence.  ence. existence.  In  a  short  period,  from  her  inhuman  conduct,  this  un unfortunate  fortunate unfortunate  dupe  of  superstition  and  ignorance  was  seized  with  fits;  which  appears  like  an  awful  dispensation  of  Providence,  tit  deprive  her  of  that  life  which  she  was  unworthy  of,  as  she  urvived  but  a  few  days  after,  expiring  in  the  greatest  agonies.  Ilut.t.,  DEC.  24.--A  heavy  fall  of  snow  comMenced  on  Satur Saturday  day Saturday  last,  and  has  continued,  with  little  intermission,  every  suc succeeding  ceeding succeeding  day,  accompanied  by  a  strong  gale  of  wind  a  great  part  of  the  time,  from  the  north  and  north-west.  The  quantity  of  snow  that  has  fallen  in  this  neighbourhood  is  so  great,  that  in  many  places  the  road  has  been  rendered  impassable  for  carriages.  The  mail,  and  other  coaches  from  York,  have  not  reached  this  place  since  Saturday  last.  The  Doncaster  coach,  by  way  of  Howden,  which  should  have  come  in  on  Sunday  night,  arrived  here  yesterday.  On  Sunday,  and  the  following  days,  the  bags,  with  the  mails  from  York,  were  brought  in  between  ten  and  elevca  o'clock  each•  day,  on  horseback,  from  York,  the  mail  guard  having  to  ride  eighty  miles  each  day,  through  the  snow,  with  the  mails;  one  of  them  was  so  severely  fatigued  that  h  ,, STYLE=superscript  lies  at  Bishop  Burton,  very  dangerously  ill.  In  the  neighbour neighbourhood  hood neighbourhood  of  Market  Weighton  the  snow  was  drifted  so  much  as  to  he  level  with  the  hedges  an  each  side.  NE A  sr  E,  DEC.  24.—0  n  Saturday  and  Sunday  last,  a  severe  storm  of  snow,  attended  by  a  violent  gale  of  wind,  came  on  in  this  neighbourhoOd.  It  has,  we  understand,  been  very  generally  felt  along  the  northern  and  eastern  coasts.  The  roads  in  many  •  places  near  this  town  were  obliged  to  be  cut,  particularly  tho'e  that  ran  in  an  easterly  direction.  In  the  Last  Riding  of  York Yorkshire  shire Yorkshire  the  fall  of  snow  has  been  so  heavy  as  entirely  to  suspend  land  conveyance.  The  Telegraph  from  this  town  to  Hull  did  not  for  several  days  reach  its  destination.  '  Wednesday  sennight,  during  the  performance  of  High  Life  firlaw  Stairs,  one  of  the  dressing-rooms  of  North-Shields  Thew,:  took  fire,  and  several  dresses  were  consumed  before  the  flames  were  extinguished.  There  being  an  abundance  of  snow  in  the  streets,  the  fire  was  soon  got  under  by  carrying  buckets-full  into  the  Theatre.  An  alarming  fire  broke  out,  about  six  o'clock  on  Wednesday  evening  last,  in  the  dwelling-house  of  Mrs.  Swale,  tanner,  of  Ipswich,  occasioned  by  culpable  inattention  to  the  kitchen  chimney,  which  had  been  observed  on  tire  during  the  greater  part  of  the  day,  but  no  steps  were  taken  to'suppress  the  same;  and  in  consequence  it  communicated  to  the  roof,  and  ultimately  de destroyed  stroyed destroyed  the  whole  house,  notwithstanding  the  most  active  exer exertions  tions exertions  of  the  military  and  neighbouring  inhabitants,  through  whose  means  the  bark-houses  and  adjacent  buildings  were  preserved  from  the  ravages  of  the  flames,  which  appeared  more  dreadful  than  ans  - STYLE=superscript  conflagration  ever  recollec:e  !  in  that  town.  Saturday  the  lith  ult.  a  great  many  sheep  in  Burgh  in  the  Marsh,  Lincolnshire,  and  other  places,  were  by  the  inclemency  of  the  weather  driien  into  drains  and  drowned.  The  post-boy  who  rode  the  mail  from  Market-Raisin  to  Castor,  was  the  same  day  starved  to  death  on  the  road.  Thursday  se'nnight,  in  the  evening,  as  Mr.  C.  Chapman,  of  Newmarket,  was  returning  frOm  a  friend's  house,  •  near  Dog Dogkennel-lane,  kennel-lane, Dogkennel-lane,  he  heard  a  c  6, STYLE=superscript  of  apparently  from  the  Heath  :  he  immediately  scent  home  for  assistance,  and  proceeded  in  search  of  the  persons  from  whom  the  voices  came,  when,.  by  his  timely  interference,  he  probably  saved  the  lives  of  five  per persons,  sons, persons,  who  had  lost  their  Way  in  going  front  Newmarkett  to  Saxon-street.  It  appears  they  had  been  making  merry  at  the"
