text
"ThE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  bad  been  keptiasuspensesome  time,  and  he  desired  to  withdraw  his  security.  It  was  upon  his  having  made  this  known  to  the  parties,  that  Capt.  Sandon  had  received  that  note,  which  is  th?  note  now  in  question,  which  communicated  to  him  that  the  ne negociatio.i  gociatio.i negociatio.i  was  not  going  on.  Ile  then  sheaved  a  second  note.  say saying  ing saying  that  the.  promotion  would  go  on,  and  mentioned  the  (lay  it  -would  be  gazetted.  He  then  stated  to  me  that  Goth  thp  note  s  were  in  his  possession,  and  observed  that  the  whole  of  the  par parties  ties parties  had  been  deceived,  and  that  he  had  been  imposed  upon;  that  the  certain  influence  by  which  the  appointments  were  to  he  gained  had  no  foundation,  and  it  was  not  until  several  sums  of  stoney  had  been  paid  that  the  deceit  was  discovered.  Mts.  Clarke  examiued  by  the  CITA  N  CELL()  ft  of  the  Excit  r.-  QUER—Q.  Look  at  that  paper  in  d  our  hand,  and  tell  e.e  if  you  have  seen  a  note  to  that  effect  front  hi.,  Royal  !le.thoess?  A.  I  don't  recollect  any  thing  about  it.  It  is  very  pi-nimble  I  might,  and  it  is  very  probable  I  might  not.  1  have  been  looking  over  what  letters  I  have,  which  he  sent  me  on  that  day,  and  I  can't  find  the  letters  you  mention.  I  know  he  wrete  one  hia.-  self,  and  the  other,  which  was  written  by  Mr.  Greenwood,  was  coried  by  him,  and  then  sent  to  me.  It  was  a  S  hort  one  I  ref  eived  in  the  morning,  and  a  long  one  in  the  evening,  written  by  Mr.  Greenwood,  which  his  Royal  Highness  sent  to  the  instead  or  coining  to  dinner.  The  letter  I  received  was  not  in  his  hand handwritiwz,  writiwz, handwritiwz,  but  in  that.  of  Mr.  Greenwood,  and  the  Duke  having  copied  it  sent  it  me.—Q.  Did  yon  ever  know  Mrs.  Favorite  by  any  other  name  than  Favorite?  A.  Never.  Rot  T  know  that  she  has  made  use  of  my  'tame,  and  since  last  night,  which  has  made  )ur  very  unhappy  indeed  ;  and  Mrs.  Favorite  will  be  found  to  have  told  many  stories  about  me—Q.  When  did  Mrs.  Favo Favorite  rite Favorite  live  with  you  first  ?  A.  I  cannot  exactly  tell.—Q.  Did  ou  give  her  a  character  to  Mr.  Ellis?  A.  Either  I  or  my  sister  did,  I  don't  recollect  which—Q.  Were  you  in  the  habit  pf  intimacy  with  Mrs.  Favourite  at  the  time  she  lived  with  Mr.  J:llIs?  A.  No—Q.  Did  you  ever  call  upon  her  at  Mr.  El Ellis's?  lis's? Ellis's?  A.  Ido  not  recollect  that  I  did.  1  called,  I  believe,  when  I  wanted  her,  in  a  hackney  coach,  with  a  young  lady  w  ith  me—Q.  how  came  you  to  turn  her  away,  in  consequence  Anf  haviug  heard  she  was  married  ?  A.  Becau.a.  I  heard  that  •  her  husband  was  a  thief  and  a  bad  character.  f  ta:ssed  some  sup-plates,  upon  which  the  Mikes  said  she  shot'al  go—Q.  now  long  wits  it  idle'  wards  that  you  Limbic  Is  et  into  your  service  again?  A.  In  about  a  year  and  a  half  afterwards.  But  I  did  not  take  her  again  till  1  wanted  her  very  much.  Examined  by  Mr.  C.  ADA  ms.---Q.  The  Witness  stated,  in  a  former  part  of  her  examination,  that  she  had  pinned  a  list  of  names  for  promotion  at  11.  e  head  of  the  bed  for  his  Royal  High Highness  ness Highness  to  see,  does  she  abide  by  that  assertion  now  ?  A.  I  do.---  Q.  How  long  was  that  list  pinned  up  ?  A.  The  second  morning  his  Royal  Highness  took  it  down.  Ile  drew  up  the  cuttain,  read  - STYLE=superscript  it,  and  afterwards  I  saw  him  put  it  into  his  pocl..et-book.  Sometime  afterwards,  when  he  was  looking  at  some  other  papers  I  saw  this  list  again  iii  his  pocket-book,  with  a  pen  scratched  through  two  of  the  names.  He  came  to  me  and  made  an  observation  that  he  nould  do  every  one  by  degrees  as  he  had  done  the  others.  (•.l  tough;  hear!  !)---Q.  Did  you  ever  live  with  Mr.  ()glebe  ?  A.  I  never  lived  with  any  man  except  the.  Duke  of  York.  (  laugh  ).---Q.  Did  Mr.  Ogleby  ever  live  with  vou  ?  A.  No.  General  Claveriar  called  on  Mr.  Oglehy,  at  the  instia  ion  :%Ir.  Low  ton,  to  spea  k  against  my  character.  Examined  by  \  r.  Wrt  ITUttEP.D.---Q:  I  think  you  stated  that  since  your  separation  from  the  Duke  of  York  you  have  received  niftily  letters  front  him  ;  can  von  produce  any  use  letter  to  substantiate  that  fact  ?  A.  Yes,  I  can.  Mrs.  Clarke  here  put  i  t  a  bundle  of  letters  of  the  Duke's,  written  to  her,  together  with  the  above-mentioned  iwo  letters,  which  were  immediately  read,  and  were  as  follows:  Directed  to  George  Farquhar,  L:4l.  Enclosed  I  seed  you  the  money  you  wish  for  your  jonr 'jonr;ley.'  The  sum  enclosed  wad  £00!.  for  Mrs.  Clarke's  journey  from  Worthing:.  TO  (;T:0  FIGE  FA  RQUH  A  R  Ido  not  know  hat  you  mean;  I  never  authorised  any  both  to  plaAtte  nor  disturb  you,  and  therefore  you  may  be  per perfect!.  fect!. perfect!.  at  .  Our  case  on  my  The  Chairman  directed  the  Serjerint  at  Arms  to  acquaint  Mrs.  Clarke  that  she  need  not  eodtinne  in  attendance.  •  Colonel  Hamilton  ezainined  lsy  Lord  Fe  L  KS7O  r.—Q.  From  whom  did  you  anderstaod  that  Capt.  S4nrlnn  received  the  note  whit+  to  Major  'fimyn?  A.  From  Mrs.  Clarke.—  W  hen  t.  d  you  first  see  the  note  ?  A.  On  the  Saturday  after  saw  Mr.  .I.daas.-  1  -4/.  Wab  the  notes  inclosed  in  any  envelop  or  FEB.  26.  cover?  A.  I  ds,  not  exactly  recollect,  hut  I  think  Capt.  San Sandon  don Sandon  showed  me  some  paper  of  th:►t  kind  to  compare  the  hand  writings,  and  I  thought  that  the  cover  was  written  in  the  same  :mini  as  the  note.  _  .  Mr.  Ellis  examined  by  the  CuANt  er.t.ort  of  the  EXCTIE-.  QU  ER  .--Q.  What  are  you  ?  A.  One  of  :he  tat.:“ers  of  the  Mer  •  chant  Ta)lor's  siAtqol.—.Q.  Do  you  a  person  of  the  name  or  Favor:te  ?  A.  Not  by  that  name,  but  by  that  of  Elizabeth  Farquhar.  she  lived  with  the  as  a  hervant,  and  I.  had  a  character  wiih  her  from  Mri.  Clarke  —Q.  \V  here  did  t  1  rs.  Clarke  theft  reside?  A.  In  tiobbli-lace,  Golden  senate.--Q.  At  what  ue uerimi  rimi uerimi  was  this  ?  A.  In  \i,!\  I  take  the  liberty  to  ask.  c.itt,  Mr.  Ellis,  if  e..er  %oil  folic  %Vett  the  trade  of  a  carp  tiler  ?  A.  No.—Q.  Used  MN.  Clarkt.  frequci.tly  to  call  on  I.:.  l STYLE=superscript  .i:.:abet  Farquhar  after  .she  came  into)  our  ser.  ice  ?  A.  Yes.--  Q.  Did  she  use  to  come  in  a  carriage  ,  or  on  fool.?  A.  On  fnor.—Q.  how  long  used  she  to  stay  with  M  rt.  F;giquhar  ?  A.  Bail  an  Lour  or  sotnetime  longer.--Q.  From  the  footiog  they  seemed  to  be  on  together,  did  you  coajeetate  there  was  any  relationship  between  theta?  A.  From  their  familiarity  I  surmised  that  there  wa!;.  •  Mrs.  Favourite  was  then  ordered  to  be  called  in,  and  Mr.  Ellis  directed  to  remain  at  the  bar.  _  Q.  To  Mrs.  Favorite,  by  the  C!1  A  N  C  nt.T.O  rt  of  the  Exert  F..-  ..jut:n-1s  this  Mr.  Ellis?  A.  Yes—Q.  To  Mr.  this  the  person  who  lived  in  your  family  under  the  name  of  Far Farquhar  quhar Farquhar  ?  A.  Yes.  Mr.  Ellis  ordered  to  withdraw.  Mrs.  Favorite  examined  by  the  Cu.  Nehr,Lott  of  the  Ex ExcuEQu  cuEQu ExcuEQu  1:R---Did  3on  ever  go  1))  the  name  of  Farquhar  ?  A.  When  I  was  going  into  service,  I  asked  Mrs.  Clarke  if  1  might  take  the  name  of  her  family,  and  she  said  I  might  if  I  thought  it  would  be  of  any  use  to  me—Q.  How  long  have  you  known  Mrs.  Clarke  ?  A.  Thirteen  or  fourteen  yea's,  ever  since  her  marriage  —Q.  What  name  did  you  go  by  then  ?  A.  By  my  own  'mine  Favorite—Q.  Ilow  long  is  it  sit:cc  you  drop,  ped  the  name  of  Farquhar,  and  took  that  of  Favorite  again  A.  When  I  went  bark  to  Gloucester-place—Q.  Was  it  not  to  disguise  front  1l  r'.  Clarke's  family,  that  you  were  a  relation  of  ber  . STYLE=superscript  s  that  you  took  the  MOW!  of  Favorite?  A.  No---Q.  II  here  does  your  father  tive  ?  A.  In  his  grave.  (.1  1  b  [After  a  variety  of  other  questions  the  Witness  admitted  flat  •  she  had  been  married  about  three  years  ago  at  Woolwich,  by  the  name  of  Farquhar,  but  that  she  was  no  relation  of  Mrs.  Clarke.  She  also  said  she  had  given  a  wrung  deeription  of  Mr.  Ellis,  whom  she  now  stated  to  be  a  gentlentao,  awl  not  a  carpenter,  The  witness  was  then  permitted  to  withdraw].  Mr.  Greenwood  examined  by  Air.  flusx  tsso  that  letter  (alluding  to  one  shown  the  Witness  by  the  Cluck  of  the  House)  your  N  1  riting  ?  A.  Yes  ;  it  is  the  cop  of  a  letter  written  to  Mrs  Clarke,  after  his  Royal  Highness  hial  separated  from  her.  •  44 STYLE=superscript  To  MRS.  CI.  A  RK  You  must  recollect,  I  had  occasion,  seven  months  since,  to.  employ  my  solicitor  to  make  some  inquiries  relative  to•lt  sub sub-I►o2tia,  -I►o2tia, sub-I►o2tia,  w  hich  I  received  on  your  account:  the  result  of  that  in inquiry  quiry inquiry  gave  me  no  reason  to  refrain  from  the  opinion  I  formed  that  occasion.  Nor  did  I  rashly  judge  of  the  circumstances  of  tlie  ca,ie.  lam  resolved  to  abide  by  the  resolutions  1  have  taken,  and  cannot  recede  from  them.  An  interview  milli  be  painful  to  both  of  th;,  and  of  no  advantage  to  3  ou.  I  mu,r,  therefore,  decline  [The  Witness  was  here  ordered  to  Withdraw.]  Mr.  Wntzt;►ti.  &amp;D  stated  that  he  tmd  had  just  put  into  hi;  hand  some  letters,  which  were  seut  to  him  by  Ati  . STYLE=superscript  s.  Cl  a  rke  in  pormance  of  her  promise  1‘  hen  she  was  examined  at  the  Bars  from  their  dates  they  appeared  to  L  n  been  w  ritten  ulterior  to  her  separation  from  his  Royal  Digbness.  Four  appeared  to  be  written  by  his  Royal  II  ighnes,  and  one  by  General  Clavering.  The  Witness  was  ;main  called  to  the  Bar,  and  on  being  shown  the  letters  alluded  to,  gave  it  as  his  opinion,  that  they  w  es  . STYLE=superscript  ;  ritteu  by  the  Duke  of  York.  •  The  letters  were  then  read,  pod  were  as  follow  :  To  Mrs.'Clarke,  No.  9,  Old  I.3urlingtott-sliett.  Witlimit  being  informed  of  the  amount  of  assistance  ynn  re.-  quire,  it  is  impossible  to  say  how  1  can  be  of  service  to  To  Mrs.  Clarke,  18,  Gloucester-place,  Portman-square.  If  I  could  see  any  advantage  that  could  be  dvri  .ed  by  2,  our  seeing  me,  1  bhould  have  no  objection  to  our  nivs  (lag  ;  but  iib  would  he  eUrerne4  painful  to  us  both,  1411der  the  Intimit  sit sitcurustauees,  curustauees, sitcurustauees,  r  limit  decline"
