text
"JAN.  15,  Jan.  30.  James  gills,  Wood  within  Saddieworth,  Myer,  at  eleven,  at  the  Star  Inn,  Manchester.  Feb.  7.  James  Wilson  and  John  Sallows,  Oxford-street,  leather4ellers,  at  tee,  at  Guildhall,  London.  orkt  FERTIFICATES—  FEB.,  4.  Robert  Motteram,  Walsall,  Stafford;  victualler—James  Weston,  vintner—John  Piuk.  Gravesend,  Kent  l  bouseyearpenter-  r  Jererniab  Parkinson  and  John  Stork,  St.  Saviour's  phurch-yard,  Surrey,  hop-factors—David  Isaac,  Liverpool,  slap-teller—John  Birch  and  Robert  Robinson.  Lan Lancaster,  caster, Lancaster,  eott”-spinners,  T  ßoger  LV  jliams  ,  Bedwelty,  Monmouth,  shopitire.per---Jnbn  Brooke  Knight,  Camoznile.street,  Bishops.  grae.street,  corclwainer—Chae.es  Ward  A  pthorp,  Bridge-street,  Blackfriars,  merchant...  Walter  Mason,  4eartley-  place,  Kent Kentroad,'  road,' Kentroad,'  Surrey,  brandy-merchant.  The  Gazette  contains  a  letter  from  Captain  Sanders,  of  his  Majesty's  sloop  Beßette,  stating  the  capture  of  the  Danisit  cut.  ter  privateer  Paulin&amp;  of  10  guns  and  42  men,  and  a  letter  'from  Captain  Gill  of  his  )Majesty's  Anal)  Onyx  of  10  guns  and  'l6  men,  relates  the  particulars  of  his  having  captured  the  Dutch  National  brig  Maly,  formerly  British,  and  captured  by  the  Dutch  in  the  Eno..  She  mounts  12  eighteen-Tout-oer  commades  and  four  long  hralAs  six-pounfler  and  04  men.'  Ou  beard  the  Onyx  there  were  stone  killed.  Thomas  King,  seaman,  was  badly  wounded  1  as  was  James  Langworth,  who  is  since  dead;  and  James  Har Harlow,  low, Harlow,  slightly  wounded.  •The  Dutch  crew  had  kve  killed  and  six  wounded.  THE  . STYLE=superscript  INATRAIT  OF  HIS  MAJESTY,  From  b/  sir  W.  BErcuEir  l  which  wivs  iptepdrd  tq  be  delivered  GRATIS  On  qyltleN  text,  cannot  possibly  be  got  lee*  before  pinda2l.  Jan.  20,  when  it  will  1;051717n:I  be  DISTRIBUTED  GRATIS!  And  on  which  Day,  the  INnE;  to  Complete  the  First  Vo  lotA4  of  this  Paper;  together  with  F  HROA  :  O  4  O  Q  IC4L  T  4BLB  OP  THB  BPB  O  PTS  q  t  T•MIF  PAS  T  Miff,  will  be  ready  for  Delivery,  It  may  be  necessary  to  inform  our  POUNTRY  svascayants,  that  it  Wil!  be  impossible'  o  transmit  the  PORTRAIT,  &amp;c.  by  the  Post,  without  completely  destroying  their  value  and  appearance;  and  therefore  Residents  in  the  country  should  give  immediate  direction  to  their  respective  Newsmen,  Clerks  of  the  Roads,  and  Booksellers,  to  And  some  certain  and  safe  means  of  forwarding  the  Portrait;'  Index,  &amp;c.  Should  any  Suhscriber  have  lost  or  Mislaid  any  of  the  Numbers  of  the  Na  ir  tional  Register  ;  it  is  probable  that  their  sets  may  be  eomple.ted,  las  the  Proprietors  have  preserved  most  of  the  hack  NuOiers  for  that  purpose.  Orders  for  Trif  NATIONAL  REOIIITEI!  should  ht  111111tedi.  `ately  sent  to  the  Office,  11,  Catherine-street  Strand,  or  to  the  Newsmen,  Booksellers,  and  Clerks  of  the  Roads  )  to  prevent,  the  chance  of  disappointment.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER."
