text
"SUNDAY,  MAR  CII  5,  1809.  PRICE  84.  only  free  deliberative  assembly  in  the  old  world,  unchecked  by  brutal  violence,  unawed  by  tyranny.  This  last  remain remaining  ing remaining  stay  of  freedom  ;—this  Pharos  in  the  obscurity  and  storms  of  our  age,  must  be  preserved,  towering  and  efful effulgent,  gent, effulgent,  to  cheer  the  drooping  minds  and  raise  the  sinking  courage  of  the  present  generation  ;  otherwise  public  virtue  and  happiness  may  take  a  long,  perhaps,  lasting  farewell  of  Europe  and  our  own  islands.  These,.considerations  arc  sufficiently  impressive  to  in inspire  spire inspire  with  firmness  and  patriotism  a  less  independent  and  less  virtuous  House  of  Commons  than  the  present.  Their  proceedings  must  determine  whether  the  moral  resources  of  this  country  are  sufficient  to  resist  the  tempest,  which,  •  with  the  most  frightful  symptoms,  is  gathering  round  it.  The  highest  stretch  of  human  virtue,  wisdom  and  energy  is  alone  competent  to  preserve  us  from  the  calamities  which  have  befallen  our  neighbours  ;  and,  we  cannot  conceal  it,  the  Moment  is  fast  approaching,  when  we  must  undergo  this  severe  and  unparallelled  trial.  A  tremendous  crisis  is  near  at  hand  ;  and  impressed  with  the  awful  conviction,  we  turn  away,  with  horror  and  disgust,  from  a  Mrs.  Clarke,  her  associates  and  paramour,  and  consigning  them  to  the  punishment,  or  contempt,  which  the  law,  or  public  opinion,  may  inflict,  will  propose  some  measures  in  order  to  meet  with  fortitude  the  alarming  occurrences.  Our  own  nature  is  too  mercurial  to  give  way  to  despondency  ;  and  at  exig exigence  ence exigence  we  would  spurn,  were  it  dependent  on  the  brutal  caprice  of  a  tyrant.  Our  mind  is  made  up  for  the  worst  events  which  may  happen  ;  what  we,  therefore,  propose  may  bear  more  the  stamp  of  our  own  feelings  and  princi principles,  ples, principles,  than  apply  to  the  present  state  of  society.  The  fifth  act  of  the  dreadful  tragedy,  which,  for  more  than  nineteen  years,  excited  the  sympathy  and  terror  of  mankind,  is  upon  the  point  of  commencing.  The  maths  has  already  been  raised  a  little,  and  the  appearance  of  the  hero  of  the  piece  is  looked  for  with  anxious,  trembling  impatience.  It  bears  a  striking  resemblance  to  the  pro productions  ductions productions  of  our  immortal  bard.  The  scene  shifts  with  ale  most  the  rapidity  of  lightning—from  Europe  to  Afeka,  to  Asia,  and  back  again  to  Europe  ;  and  the  prim'  I  per personage  sonage personage  is  transported,  as  if  by  the  effect  of  mag  K  from  the  Seine  to  the  Po,  from  thence  to  the  Nile  and  aordan.  He  reappears  on  the  Po—from  thence  is  conveyed  to  the  Danube  and  Vistula.  His  next  appearance  is  on  the  Ebro;  and  the  next  scene  of  his  exploits  will  probably  be  the  Da Danube  nube Danube  or  the  Niemen.  In  perfect  conformity  to  the  prin.  ciples  of  the  tragic  art,  the  hero  has  been  uniformly  suc successful,  cessful, successful,  though  branded  with  every  crime,  and  an  object  of  universal  terror  and  abhorrence.  Ail  human  means,  have  been  as  yet  found  ineffectual  to  resist  him  in  his  mad  ca career  reer career  of  ambition  and  cr:ltes,  whilst  the  powers  of  the  probable  are  considered  itiadequ‘te  to  render  the  cause  of  justice  triumphant  ;  and,  according  to  some  of  our  politi political  cal political  critics,  some  Deus  ex  machina,  some  supernatural  agency,  is  una.  , STYLE=superscript  ,Adably  necessary  to  stem  the  course  of  vii.  lainy  and  inkatice.  Every  account,  private  and  public,  from  the  Continent,  every  article  in  the  Paris  Papers,  referring  to  Austria,  furs"
