text
"THE  NATIONAL..REGISrEIt  To  OUR  SUBSCRIBERS  AND  READEAS,  •  It.T.•111,  of  Bitker-greet,  Portman-square,  w  ili  apply  by  his  Newsman,  for  tipe  Numbers  that  are  wa  n  ti  ng  h  e  may  be  supplied.  We  again  thank  our  friend'  Roberta'  for  his  remarks,  and  ihneld  bee:id  to  , STYLE=superscript  racelve  his  otenrimid  Correspoltdence.  .  •  •  The  writee  of  en  orticie  called  f•Lega;  Abuses:  some  time  Slime  inserted  .  in  e  Tn  a  NATION  REot  nee,  .  will  immediately  commence  a  •perfictly  eriginal.Series,  of.  Strictures,  to  be  en 'entitledrile'  *llia  *AI  be  exclusively  offered  to  the  Reaters.  bf  this%Pipef.  .  .  IHR  BAR  INo.  1.3-6•Wita.ixss  GARROW,  Esq.  ..•  .  •  On  Srindity  next  will  be  delivered  Gnirts  the  PORTRAIT  ttf  Ala  f4.1',E.11  1 STYLE=superscript  1',.  from  a  Painting  by  Sir  W.  lieechey,  and  ).:.pinteffen  the  finest  Capper-plate  Paper.  And  on  which  .da#,,  a  t:hronolagifal  table  of  the  Bventa  of  the  past  Year,  :and  tp  .contplete  The  First.  Volume  of  ,this  Paper,  il4l  be  ready  fu  .  i  .  X)  ve  ri  Pr  ic  e  Eig  ht-pence.  •  AU  the  Newsmen  will  be  Gratuitously  ft  - STYLE=superscript  airlifted  with  Por Portrills  trills Portrills  of  - STYLE=superscript  his  Majesty  for  tile'  pnipoSe  of  delivering  among•  the  •  ?urehasett  of  NATIONAL  •ILEOISTER.;  it  is,  therefore,  •  ;loped  that  will  not  receive  the  Paper  from  the  News Newsmen.9nless  men.9nless Newsmen.9nless  it  is  accompanied  with  the  Portrait.  It  linty  be  necessaty  to  inform  our  CiitliweraY  StinsettianaS,  that  it  will  le-  leationsible  to  transmit  the  PORTRAIT,  INDEX  .&amp;c.  hythe.Poitouithaat  completely  destroying  their  value  and  appearances  and  therefore  Residents  in  the  country  killould  give  immediate  direction  to  their  respective  Newsmen,  Clerks  of  the  Roads  . STYLE=superscript  ,  and  Bookiellers,  to  and  some  certain  and  safe  Means  of  , STYLE=superscript  forwarding  the  Portraits.'  &amp;c.  Should  any  .  Subscriber  have  lost  or  mislaid  any  of  •the  Numbers.of  the  Na-  .  tionarßegister  t  it  is  probable  that  their  ;Jets  may  be  completed,  :is  the  Proprietors  have  preserSed.most  of  back  Numbers  fur  that  purpose.  Orden  for  THE  NiTl6NAVßlt4ltillitt  should  be  immedi immediately  ately immediately  sent  to  the  Office,  Catherine-street,  •  Strand,  or  to  the  Newsmen,  Booksellers,  and  Clerks  of  the  Roads,  to  prevent  the  ehance  of  disappointment.  - STYLE=superscript  THE  NA'  lONAL  REGISTER.  cubit»,  SUNDAY,  JANUARY  .23;1809.  PozirricAL-Awiars  oF  THE  !i'EER•  •  We  feel  . STYLE=superscript  art  suillt'Oid  degree  of  pleasure  3n  being  able  to  relieve  the.  anxiety  of  our  Readers  relative  to  the  situation  of  'our  army.  Yesterday  Government  received  . STYLE=superscript  Rispatche.  from  Sir  Josi  , STYLE=superscript  lViooac,  dated,  Corunna,..lan.  14,  to  which  place  that  gallant  officer-  had  _been  able  to  retreat,  with'  little  or  no  loss.  The  dispatches  were  brought  .by  Brigadier:  General  CHARLES,STEir  ' STYLE=superscript  ART,  brother  to  Lord  C  and  who'  signalised  himself  so  .much:  in  the  'affair,  in  which  LEFEBR,E  was  taken.prisener..  appears  that  a  consider-.'  able  part  of  the  cavalry  had  embarked  previous  to  their.  departure,  and  the  remainder  were  embarking.  The  whole wholearmy  army wholearmy  was  at  Corunaa,  with  the  exception  -. STYLE=superscript  of  34100.ine4  who  had  marched  by  Orensee  to  Vigo,  under  Brigadier  -. STYLE=superscript  General  CRAUtORD.  Sir  DAVID  BAIRD  occupied,  the  heights  '  of  Corunna  with  &amp;formidable  force,  to  cover  ;  the  einliarka  :  .  tion.  The  enemy  had  already  arrived.  at  Burge,  in  the  neighbOurhood  of  . STYLE=superscript  Coranna  t  'but  notin  considerable  force.  .  The  whole  army  enjoyed  the  hest  health  and  spirits.  But  Brigadier-General  ANSTRIUTieIt,  we  arc  sorry  to  state,  fell  a.victira  to'his  •  zeal  and  •  the  , STYLE=superscript  :  discharge  of STYLE=superscript  his STYLE=superscript  professieual  •  duties.  -  •  .  ..  •  ,  The  following  'Bulletin'  was  blisticd  yesterday  by  Clo Cloven:meld  ven:meld Cloven:meld  raw•  •  ••  •  •  r•••  •  .  -  •  J,.  •  •  ••  •  •  ;.  '  -  8f  Brigadier-iGreneral  Stewart  arrived  :this  morning-  at  Lord.  CASTLaR.EAGA'S.Office  in  Downing-street,  with  dig:.  patches  from  Sr  J.  MOORE,  date&amp;  COrtIMM,  the  13th  inst.  upon  which  place  he  had  directed  his  march,  instead  of  Vigo,  as  he  had  origina!ly  intended,  with  the  loss  of  only  part  of  his  baggage.  There  had  been  repeated  skirtniihed  with  the  rear-guard,  in  which  we  had  uniformly  - STYLE=superscript  repulted.  the  eperny  t  land  at  Lugo,  Sir  John  Moore  ofkred  the  ene*is  battle,  which  they  declined.  The  enemy,  when  Brigadier-General  Stewart  left  Co,  runna,  were  in  force  in  the  neighbourhood,  but  it  Ira'  trusted  that  Sir  John  Moore  would  effect  his  re-embarka re-embarkation  tion re-embarkation  without  much  loss,  as  the  transports  which  had  sent  for  from  Vigo,  %ere  entering  the  Bay  at  Corunna,  when  General  Stewart  .  The  Ann  brig,  which  sailed  from  Corunien  on  the_l4l4,  inst.  has  brought  some  Spanish  papers  and  letters.  Thi  likewise  state  the  arrival  of  our  troops  near  that  cityl.  a#4.  the  preparations  making  for  their  embarkation.'  .7  It  is  unnecessary  to  repeat  the  pleasure  w  have  felt  . STYLE=superscript  iii*  the  receipt  of  this  intelligence.  With  an  winiust  confidence  in  the  heroism  of  our  troops,  and  •tlitirot  7 STYLE=superscript  44.:  sional  Skill  of  their  commander,  it  %YU  i~upossilile  mat'  to  feel  strong  anxiety  about  their  fate,  'we  renitined  h  the  most  painful  uncertainty  of  its  situation;  froni  the  Aate  - STYLE=superscript  -elt  , STYLE=superscript  Sir  JOHN  Mooni's  last  dispatches.  This  ignorance,  as  mica  , STYLE=superscript  be  expected,  magnified  our  impatience  and  alarm  ;  formidable  force  which  the  enemy  was  hovering  rear,  tforded  too  much  cause  for  uneasiness.  •  Howeiew  Sir  JOHN  MOOR  E  t  by  his  masterly  retreat,•  in  the  preieniii  of  an  enemy  vastly  superior  in  number,  and  vaunted  for  the:  rapidity  of  of  their  movements,  has  placed  hinise  F  by  that.  single  operation  in  the  first  class  of  distingifiallecl'ollkers.'  The  talents  of  a  great  general  display  theitiselveslo  aidrL  conspicuous  manner,  in  a  successiul  retreat  before  a  iitinm iitinmrous  rous iitinmrous  enemy,  than  in  the  combinations  and  arrangements  of  a  battle.  Too  frequently  has  the  genera  artogatod  to  hiniself  what  is  the  effect  of  pure  accident,  or  even  frO  quently  of  a  mistake  ;  but  for  the  space  c  f  two  or  tlirte  'hundred  miles  to  march  'before  an'entesprising  mid  plash-.  4  lug  enemy,  without  giving  any  advantage,  is  a,  pro'nfof  very  rare  talents.  .  •  Some  French  Bulletins  were  received  yesterday,  they  contain  no  circumstance  of  Unportalice,  except  the  luntfion  •  of  ST.  CYR  with  DU  . STYLE=superscript  RESME  at  Barcelona:  We  sincertily  regret  this  circumstance,  as  the  scarcity  of  provisions  in  lite  garrison  offered  a  prospect  of  its  speedy  surrender.  They  •  contain,  as  usual,  a  mn  - STYLE=superscript  11)er  of  flippant  allusions;  and  in  spea,king  of  our  .  army,  without  going  into  any  detail  of  advantages  'obtained,  ,concludes  ;  with  the  gasconade  s,  The  EMperor  has  give',  orders  to  the  Duke  of  Dalmatia  to  drive  the  English  into  the  .  •  .  .  LETTERS.  from  Lisbon  to  the  7th  instant  have  been  re received..  ceived.. received..  From  these  it  appears.  that.  very  .strong  apprehen apprehensions  sions apprehensions  were  entertained  there  of  the  speedy  arrival  of  the  enemy.  Though  no  positive  intelligence  had  been.  received  Of,  thu.  French  haying  entered  Portugal,  prnantionary  measures  were  nevertheless  adopted,  to  secure  the  &amp;par &amp;par.ture  .ture &amp;par.ture  of  - STYLE=superscript  the  Euglish  factory;  and  such  Portugliese  as  . STYLE=superscript  have  rendered  themselves  obnoxious  to  the  invaders  bv  a  heir  at attachment  tachment attachment  to  their  legitimate  sovereign.  No  term  ion  is  made  Whether  our  °troops,  in  conjunction  with  the  Portuguese."
