text
"APRIL  16.  BOROUG  H  M  Yesterday  a  Meeting  was  held  at  the  Town  Hall,  Mr.  Town Townsend,  send, Townsend,  as  Deputy  to  Sir  Watkin  Lewes,  in  the  Chair.  The  De Deputy  puty Deputy  Bailiff  took  the  Chair  about  half  past  twelve,  and  opened  kith  reading  the  Resolution  to  convene  the  Meeting,  signed  by  forty-eight  inhabitants.  Colonel  Davies  opened  the  business,  and  previous  to  his  putt;  in,  the  Resolutions,  made  a  few  genotalobsersation.  iii  which  he  declared  his  sense  of  the  conduct  of  the  NLijority  of  the  house  of  Commons  in  the  late  investigatiOn.  ITe  then  handed  up  his  Resolutions,  which  were  read.  The  first  was  a  Vote  of  Censure  on  Ministers.  It  was  seconded  by  Mr.  Pavel!,  who  entered  into  .tome  very  strong  animadversions  on  the  Duke  of  York  ;  and  vt  eat  at  some  length  into  hi  , STYLE=superscript  favourite  topic  of  Parliamentary  Reform,  the  ne•  cessity  of  which  he  enforced  at  some  length.—This  wa,  premed  unanimously  .  2.  Thanks  to  Colonel  Wardle,  for  his  independent  and  pr►triotic  247  :a  '  ,  4?  y'4  ~  ~~  .`  ~  ,  ,  P7_TB00011 ■  /  4.  I  tutstut3  w  ‘..uamivi  TT  0.1  u  iv,  im  ist3  lIILIVIR'IIUI  - STYLE=superscript  lit  into  rail  Bum.  i  paintuiiv  ex:mimeo  al  itie  mix  Of  IYr  t  •  , STYLE=superscript  iu  1  , STYLE=superscript  411  ic  -- STYLE=superscript  !  I  .7  ''..  &#34;'''  conduct.  the  gratification  of  finding  yourself  honituratily  interrogated  ,  3.  Thanks  to  Sir  Francis  Burdett,  and  the  others  (the  same  before  a  Committee  of  the  %slink.  House  of  Commons.  instead  ;  fill  ~  exactly  as  at  the  Middlesex  Meeting).  of  being  compelled  to  plead  your  coverture,  you  are  liberty  to  4.  Censured  Ministers  for  their  conduct,  and  enforced  the  ne-  take  what  cowsrture  you  please;  your  debts  are  to  be  paid  ;  your  eessity  of  a  Reform  in  the  Representation  ill  the  People.  annuity,  which  was  refused  to  you,  is  augmented,  extended,  5.  Thanks  to  Sir  Thomas  Turton,  and  the  131  members  who  I  and  I  , STYLE=superscript  ,itarranteed  ;  and  your  prison  is,  comparatively  considered,  voted  with  him.  j  converted  into  a  palace.  Such  transmutations,  however,  no  ~  6.  Promised  that  so  long  as  their  Representatives  conducted  longer  surprise  us.  We  knew  nothing,  excepting  tradithao,  of  .  .  .  \  themselves  as  avowed  enemies  to  corruption  and  abuses  in  every  tanera—  •  ,  shape,  they  should  meet  their  support.  ,  Ere  lcualneis  the  stain'd  garb  of  honour  wore,  1  i  pe  Mr.  Thornton  a  plied.  i  hl  n STYLE=superscript  murhood,  we  re  d STYLE=superscript  M  In  tl  r.  Thornton  the  late  investie  i  Sir  Thomas  requested  to  come  into  the  entered  into  a  long  ex  •  i  Turion,  who  attended  in  the  Hall  and  coin-  Or  chastiteTh  carted  for  the  whore!  •  It  was  not  ivithout  reason,  Madam,  that  you  reckoned  upon  the  effect  to  be  produced  by  ptheeeding  explanation  of  his  condtiet  cumstance  ever  communicated  to  you  by  H  ~,at  on,  and  defended  his  voting  against  Mr.  to  publish  every  cir-  it.  H.  and  every  thing  that  had  come  under  your  knowledge  durimg  thetintimacy  t  Wardle's  motion,  and  for  Mr.  flankes's  amendment,  on  the  vrith  all  his  which,  thought  you  had  lost.  minty  of  his  •  e.:  ' STYLE=superscript  ground,  that  in  his  honour  and  in  his  conscience,  he  thought  it  still  amounted  to  about  fifty  or  in  the  hest  mode  of  deciding  on  the  question,  and  the  saferand  milder  number.  Your  first  threat  has  been  felt  at  last  !  Those  who  e  one.  He  took  credit  to  himself  for  his  assiduous  attendance  in  refused  to  huv  your  complete  silence  for  the  consideration  of  .  4  have,  it  seems,  found  it  Parliament,  and  particularly  as  Chairman  of  the  Finance  Com-  40W.  yearly  during  your  own  life,  eligi-  .  \  mittee,  sitting  to  remedy  public  abuses.  hle  to  suppress  the  least  le:If  of  your  exposition,  1%  hen  the  force  Sir  Thomas  :Fulton,  after  , STYLE=superscript  th  an  ki  ng  hi  s  c  o  n  s  tit  u  e  n  t  s  ,  f  o  r  the  .o  f  t  h  e  ot  h  er  st  as  s  p  en  t,  a  t  au  immediate  expellee  of  not  less  than  honour  they  had  done  him  in  their  vote,  entered  into  :e  lung  detail  10,009/,  with  an  annuity  of  (PO/.  eNlVlldhig  fl  o  ral  yOll  to  your  •  of  his  opinion  as  to  the  conduct  of  the  D  u  k  e  o  f  york  ;  that,  children.  Shall  1  not  call  you  the  British  Sibyl  ?  After  beingbeing  l'  ••3  according  to  the  evidence,  he  was  not  only  guilty  of  ennui  Vance,  I  roughly  repulsed  :Led  determinedly  disregarded,  the  leaves  of  but  a  participator  in  the  cot  ruption.  Fur  this  reason  he  had  t  your  book  have  risen  in  y:tliy.  as  they  1  .  lessened  in  substance  ;  f  .  1  moved  an  ameudment,  puttin  g  his  ciiininalitv  in  a  fair  point  of  and  those  who  spurned  every  thing  at  a  fair  price,  have  chosen  Niew,  and  leaving  him  to  he  acquitted  or  found  guilty.  The  to  acquire  any  t  hie::  at  a  dear  price.  If  vet  - STYLE=superscript  royal  lover  pas-  event  they  all  knew.  sesses  '  4 STYLE=superscript  a  very  good  .  'me  may  Ill)  %V  Mr.  Davis  then  moved  a  Vote  of  Thanks  to  Henry  Thornton,  when,  Madam,  you  tell  '  us  -he  assured  you,  that  you  had  I'  •  .  .  •  ~  revel  t  to  the  time  Ebq•  and  the  Members  who  voted  with  ithe,  on  Mr.  Ilanises's  more  interest  than  the  (beep  and  'congratulate  himself,  as  amendment,  which  was  negatived  by  a  consideraale  majority.  .he  can,  on  the  exertion  Of  your  intere:a.  It  ons  once  your  'Thanks  to  the  Chairman  was  then  voted,  and  the  Meeting  ad-  pride,  that  you  were  not  without  friends  ;  hut  you  have  now  journed  sine  dic.  ......--  SE  VEX  SILI  LS  !  OR,  ARNIIM,ATION  OF  CORRERPONTIENCE.  aken  care  to  befriend  yourself.  Yet  was  it  kiud  in  you,  or  in  your  ,  net%  iser,  whom  One  wri.  •  1  11  -  5  ,,  ...t,t.  sir.  to  styles  the  Lesiathan  of  Coring  ~.  Gillet,  whose  premi-es  were  formerly  fouud  ttefortimately  I  .  on  fire,  an  opportu..  ty  of  making  another  tire  foriunate.y  -.......--.  ..  ..  This  fortunate  ex  pi  . STYLE=superscript  asion  of_  your  tw  o  volumes,  et  bleb  took  A  constant  smirk  upon  the  face,  and  a  whetting  - STYLE=superscript  ,  Activity  of  th  , STYLE=superscript  ..  holy,  are  ,  place  on  Saturday  last,  e‘ceeded,  I  ant  told,  any  think  ,  of  the  strong  indications  of  futility.—  '  --0  1 STYLE=superscript  1111w+-  TO  MR.S%  CL.I  RK  F.,  MADAm!—Nntwithstanding  your  present  disl  men,  it  is  new  that  ••  a  newspaper-asan,  ike  to  newspaper-  i  -!:11  -asan,'•  as  you  will  doubtless  i:  consider  the  uuknawu  writer  of  the  present  letter,  presumes  to  I  solicit  your  attention.  -  Why  you  should  entertain  particular  t  kiwi  since  the  notable  blowing  up  of  I.`armer  liarrohy  s  pig•  .  s  t  .  lt  i  '  c  i:::  ltiss.  Step  hen  !  Not  a  vestig  - STYLE=superscript  e  of  your  lettered  laaors  .  ._  it  i  3  believed  to  remain;  except,  indeed,  two  or  three  poor  sheet  , STYLE=superscript  ,  during;  time  puncess,  were  %%skirled  over  the  yard  ot  one  1-  of  Mr.  kiosieleS  neiolibours,  who  refuses  to  give  up  the  prize  s  t‘•  •  I  . STYLE=superscript  li•s  :IN  by  chance  OnlY  one  wrfect  copy  of  thu.  Om  %II  II  I  \f  ay  t  .  i  your  Memoirs  and  Correspondenre  now  exists  ;  and  t  bat  is  vcured  under  seven  which  are  not  to  be  viol  - STYLE=superscript  ead  by  ,.1  '  'II  •  .  ' STYLE=superscript  i  , STYLE=superscript  i  1;  I  .  ,  •  .!  i  1  4 STYLE=superscript  4  l  .  {  !  .i  •  .  aversion  from  newspaper-men,  I  am,  however,  rather  puzzled  1  11  ,,  „.„,,  !rind  .(  I  .  t  i  ~  .  1  ,.  i  t  i  s  a  ,e  l  l  O4  l  loyAers  I  to  decide.  You  are,  at  length,  taken  care  of;  but  the  time  I  Was,  or  your  friend  ('orri  fibs,  w  lieu  you  was  '•  oblig  ed  to  I  Some  newspaper-man  with  you  to  take  care  or  So  is  is,  as  the  scholars  say,  that  hales  change  and  we  change  w  hit  •  •  •  •  '  ;turning  of  au%  ''''  Memiti  them  ;  or,  as  our  own  Pope  ►poetically  observeth,  that  Manners  with  fortune.,  humours  turn  with  clinte,  Tenets  with  book  and  priocip!powithtiinei!  A  - STYLE=superscript  1;1,-;,  - STYLE=superscript  1  - STYLE=superscript  I;id;iii  j STYLE=superscript  i,  f  t  i STYLE=superscript  l  l STYLE=superscript  il  for  . STYLE=superscript  aimilitiatioi;  of  your  ii:lperial  cor  - STYLE=superscript  es-  pondenee  ;  for  the  suppression  of  so  many  invaluable  t  pistles,  such  numbers  of  dear,  pretty  Letters  Alas,  too,  for  time  written  1)%  :  11  , STYLE=superscript  tiiiice,  however,  it  is  becoming  fathimeinie  to  rousie  s  n  all  utis-  0..  tl  ,aeli  a  dear  Inuit...  ‘4  .  chievons  publications  to  the  Homes  here,  emblematical,  no  doubt,  of  what  their  authors  may  expect  Hereafter,  why  did  :,  Let  it  he  hoped,  nevertheless,that  your  dislike  to  mankind  exists  noi  certain  persons,  cc  imen  they  %%ere  at  Salislioru.  Square,  cons  - STYLE=superscript  i!i  only  as  coupled  with  newspapers;  i  that  it  m  s  not  en,  but  papers.  Pleti  ng  the  good  \\  art:  Of  destruction,  ju-t  turn  Olio  C!arst.  e  t  ,  it  1  t.  that  nee  so  unfortunately  Ihe  ntwjeeti  of  N  nut'  displeasure.  If  .(o),  Court  ?  Mr.  Edwards  might  as  hell  go  suacks  w  ith  Sir.  iii  let  ;  Madam,  be  it  still  for  we  to  hope,  since  my  signature  imp  os  t  s  nor  does  it  weak  fitir,  every  thing  colu.idete.l.  that  .  .  tee  to  be  nimpty  a  man,  that  you  may  feel.yourielf  fav  ou  rably  Lindseil  Omuta  be  1e.%  a  Nlr  NY  .  _noticed  thou  Sir  R.  I  hillios.  Ow  6 STYLE=superscript  4  ii  .  ,  disposed  as  to  the  marten,  whirl)  remain  at  this  time  to  he  ad-  villain°  from  the  pure  hands  of  a  Prcniirr,  t  •ems  (fits'  as  I  11  justed  between  ui.  Flie  or  a  man,  - STYLE=superscript  or  ••  this  same  i  valuable  as  t  , STYLE=superscript  .%  Ph  volume!  from  the'  dear  haw  ,  if  a  or  a  elan  of  thattle-vriotiou,'  ut  the  taily  tit  ioalt•  •'-'"
