text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  111  amend.  It  is  certainly  in  his  power  to  check  the  agility  of  his  arias,  and  to  allow  his  knees  to  use  their  wonted  pliability.  His  voice  which  he  constantly  strains  by  unnatural  bursts  into  as  unpleasant  hoarseness,  he  can  soften,  as  he  has  proved  in  some  passages,  into  melody  ;  and  as  a  few  timely  hisses  induced  hint  to  reduce  the  luxuriancv  of  his  gesticulations,  we  hope  that  a  few  true,  though  severe,  remarks,  will  lead  hint  to  still  greater  improvements.  lie  seems  in  general  to  have  formed  ajust  con conception  ception conception  of  the  character.  Yet  his  grinning  joy  when  the  corpse  of  his  son,  killed  in  battle,  is  brought  on  the  stage,  was  bat  a  degraded  substitute,  for  that  calm  and  philosophic  exultation,  that  ought  to  have  animated  not  distorted  the  features  of  the  patriotic  hero.  His  soliloquy  was  delivered  withjudgesenti  yet  lie  pronounced  this  line,  This  world  was  made  for  with  a  degree  of  pettish  anger,  which  belied  Cato's  phitosophi  cal  resignation,  when  he  exehlitn9  But  thou,  shalt  flourish  in  immortal  &amp;c.  held  the  book  high  before  him,  as  if  he  were  congratulgt congratulgt;  ; congratulgt;  it,  and  not  his  own  soul,  on  it;  immortality.  The  rest  of  e  soliloquy  was  unmarked  by  similar  imperfections;  but  4ben  is  son  enters  unbidden,  his  petulance  was  too  undignified,  and  gar  below  the  heroism  of  the  character.  In  the  dying  scene,  ke  rose  superior  to  himself,  feeling  and  judgment  became  his  sole  attributes;  lting  and  awkward  gesticulations  were  over;  and  he  expired  with  the  deserved  approbation  of  the  whole  house.  THE  UNCONSCIOUS  COUNTERFEIT.  On  Thursday  last,  a  new  farce,  in  two  acts,  entitled,  The  Un Unconscious  conscious Unconscious  was  produced  at  Drury  Lane.  The  plot  of  this  after-piece  hears  so  much  resemblance  to  that  of  Is  he  s STYLE=superscript  Prince,  that  we  strongly  suspect  both  'have  sprung  from  the  same  pen.  The  mistake  vs  Welt  gives  birth  to  the  whole  action,  prore•Nls  from  a  letter  instead  of  a  picture.  The  scene  is  in  Wales  instead  of  Cermanv  ;  but  the  characters  are  nearly  ens.  in  the  sante  mould.  We  find  in  it  a  good-natured,  open-heartedt  and  credulous  Welch  srinire,  a  dashing  captain,  who  however  rims  away  from  his  creditors,  instead  like  Captain  Llndorf,  of  travelling  to  see  his  love  , STYLE=superscript  a  timid STYLE=superscript  and STYLE=superscript  romantic STYLE=superscript  swain,  who  finishes  by  marrying  the  •younz  lady,  and  an  old  usurer,  who  in  he  othor  farce,  is  replaced  by  a  rich  banker.  The  incidents  with  which  this  piece  abounds  have  some  claims  to  pi  obability,  old  are  highl  v  ludicrous  a  n  d  entertaining.  The  total  unconsci unconsciousnes:  ousnes: unconsciousnes:  of  ('apt.  Dashwood.or  the  Counterfeit,  renders  his  part  more  interesting,  and  the  embarrassment  in  which  he  buds  himself  re STYLE=superscript  when  suddenly  meeting  with STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  usurer STYLE=superscript  to  whion  owes  two  thoturand  pounds,  and  who  was  in  search  of  hint  with  a  bailiff,  produces  some  really  comic  scenes.  The  story  is  well  con conducted;  ducted; conducted;  the  dialogue,  which  is  not  crushed  by  a  Inxttriancy  of  puns,  is  natural,  somm.itnes  rather  low,  but  in  general  elegant.  The  conclusion  is  mol  .  probable  than  that  of  h  he  And,  upon  the  w  ii,;lo,  the  pieu  is  still  more  entitled  to  the  fat  wi:h  which  it  met,  than  that  amusing  but  too  incunti,tent  afivrpioce.  DAYMA  K  EAT  RE.  111:  A  PRINCE.?  On  Tuesday  h  , STYLE=superscript  a,  a  tic.w  after-piece  iiitwo  acts.  entitled  It  he  a  Prinrc  was  produced  at  thi.  Theatre.  It  is  fiom  t  pen  cf  the  trarAzifor  ufGe  Portrtilt  e.f  Michael  Ceroonle,,whbh  lirought  forward  at  \lli;hden'r  benefit,  and  went  Hist  suspect suspected  ed suspected  it  sprung  front  the  soil.  We  however  do  nut  recol recollect  lect recollect  any  piece  on  French  stage,  which  bears  any  resein reseiniiiaine  iiiaine reseiniiiaine  to  it.  The  plot  k  not  very  natural,  but  who  expect?:  to  find  naitire  in  a  farce  ?  It  branclie  t  ilt  into  many  lt  ent  ertaaining  n nand  and nand  Indicrons  incidents,  which  keep  the  Ho  e  in  1.7(  tintial  roar  of  laoghter,  and  therefore  fulfills  the  great  end  of  a  farce,  amusement.  The  unintentional  exchange  of  a  picture  suddenly  el:ang  . STYLE=superscript  es  a  young  Officer,  in  the  opinion  of  a  Ge  swellnt  iatted  Baron,  a  great  spot  isman,  his  maiden  sister,  a  lady  with  vn:.-alogical  pride,  and  a  Count,  filled  with  good  nalure,  but  void  of  sense,  into  the  Duke  of  A  &amp;pall,  their  Soil  ;Notating  hv  this  mistake  , STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  young  Officer  obtaini  e  of  the  Baron's  daughter,  who  had  been  pledged  to  the  Count,  and  being  disco%ered  by  tike  untimely  arrival  of  his  uncle,  is  for forgiven  given forgiven  by  ail  parties,  and  abdicates  his  sovereignty  to  assume  the  title  of  Carofine's  hu-band.  The  characters  do  not  possess  an  novelty,  bu  visiblet  are  ell  It  brom.lit  into  action.  Some  inconsiteynriis  use  atm)  .  w STYLE=superscript  apvari  strzinge  that  a  bankcr  shonid  take  the  liberty  of  rrionn 'rrionn,i,'  smiting  with  hi-a  6overeign  on  bit;  t  uarringe  w  hit  his  subject?  cp cp.  . cp.  P15_TB00019 T  . STYLE=superscript  1 STYLE=superscript  .  111  b  I,  t  It  t  )  11  It  ill  M  a  I  c  ..  11  ,  .t  A  ,11  .  ..  !i‘  '  4. STYLE=superscript  .  t„  1  1  1  .  ,  1  1  `  f  ;  t  1  ,  It  I  .  1  '.  '.'''  •  ..-I  . STYLE=superscript  f  ,  /  '  I  t  1  4 STYLE=superscript  {  6 STYLE=superscript  /  ''i STYLE=superscript  s  .:3,,,.,  i  I  :  i  1  ,  .  I.  P15_TB00020 i'  P15_TB00021 re."
