text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  ACCIDENTS  AND  OFFENCES.  Monday  whilst  a  young  man  of  the  name  of  Stevens,  Servant  to  Mr.  Tibbalt,  of'  Charlotte-street,  Portland  place,  was  sliding  on  a  pond  at  Paddington,  with  a  youth  eight  years  old,  his  master's  vephew,  the  ice  broke.  and  the  former  fell  in  and  was  drowned.  The  youth  was  with  difficulty  saved.  A  ouiig  man  of  the  name  of  Younger  was  also  drowned  un  Sunday..  in  the  Park  ;  and  two  boys  met  the  same  fate  in  the  Hampstead  road  on  Saturday  - STYLE=superscript  .  On  Tuesday  last,  a  person  belonging  to  Drury-lane  Theatre  /  who  had  mounted  by  a  ladder  to  the  top  of  that  building,  mmith  intention  to  sweep  off  the  snow,  fell,  and  ex  traordittary  as  it  may  appear.  pitched  on  a  great  quantity  of  snow  in  the  waste  ground  near  Brydges-street,  without  sustaining  any  serious  injury.  Suict  D  E.—On  Wednesday  night  a  Lady  and  Gentleman  got  into  a  hackney-coach  at  the  stand  in  Oxford-street,  opposite  Rat  hbone-place,  and  the  Lady  was  set  down  in  Warren-street,  Fitzroy-square.  The  Gentleman  ordered  the  coachman  to  drive  him  to  a  public-house  at  Brompton,  but,  on  his  arrival  there,  he  was  found  lifeless,  having  cut  his  throat  in  a  shockin  P  .  manner  with  a  pen-knife.  The  deceased  was  a  Lieut  e STYLE=superscript  nant  of  Marines,  •  and  is  supposed  to  have  committed  suicide  in  - STYLE=superscript  cobsequence  of  some  losses  at  play.  •  Friday  a  great  crowd  of  people  gathered  round  the  house  of  a  Mr.  Hunt,  a  tinman,  in  Chandos-street,  eovent-  g  arden,  pa  the  supposition  that  a  girl,  who  had  been  his  servant,  had  last  her  life  through  beating  and  starvation,  as  was  very  universally  circulated  through  the  crowd.  in  the  evening,  the  popular  in indignation  dignation indignation  rose  to  such  a  height,  that  several  panes  of  glass  were  broken  in  the  house  by  the  mob.  Police  Officers  tvere  called  in,  and  the  crowd  was  dispersed.  Au  inquest  .  was  then  held  at  the  Crown  and  Thistle,  in  the  same  street  , STYLE=superscript  before  Anthony  Gel,.  Esq.  Coroner  for  Westmieiter.  The  substance  of  the  evidence  was,  that  Ann  Fane,  the  dreeased,  was  a  girl  about  15  years  of  age,  and  had  been  a  pauper  in  the  Workhouse  at  Lynn,  in  Nor Norfolk,  folk, Norfolk,  in  consequence  of  her  having  been  the  orphan  chilli  uf  poor  parents.  She  wa.;  taken  a  short  time  hack  inli)  this  srv.ets.  of  Mr.  H.  as  an  apprentice.  She  was  thought  b'  her  111.4  res..  to  be  an  untoward  girl,  and  at  different  times  reerived  (.111  ter  Lion.  From  what  cause  it  did  not  appear,  but  she  fetl  into  a  dangerous  state  of  ill-health.  Dr.  Merriman,  of  the  Western  dispensary,  prescribed  for  her  at  different  times,  but  she  always  in  the  company  of  Mrs.  H.  A  relation  frequently  visited  her,  but  always  in  the  presence  of  Mrs.  H.  but  nothing  particu particular  lar particular  came  out.  A  neighbour  had  frequently  heard  the  girl  cry  out,  and  there  were  the  marks  of  blows  upon  different  parts  of  her  person.  But  Dr.  Merriman  was  of  opinion  that  there  was  not  any  appearaace  whatever  of  injury,  such  as  was  sufficient  to  have  occasioned  the  death  of  the  patient,  either  internally  or  externally  ;  and  this  deceased  having  been  for  some  time  ill,  the  verdict  was-Died  - STYLE=superscript  a  Natural  Death.  BIRTHS.  At  Gloureoer,  on  the  'nth  ult.  the  Lady  of  Captain  John  NV  Doneli,  6th  Royal  Veteran  Battalion,  of  a  son.  Thursday  morning  . STYLE=superscript  ,  the  Lady  of  John  Gosling,  Egg.  of  Glou Gloucester  cester Gloucester  Place,  New  Road,  Mary-le-Bone,  of  a  &amp;tighter."
