text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  ditto,  died  16th  Nov,  1808  Jos.  llanwood  and  J.  Richardson,  mafiticq,  sightly  3.  M'Clarty,  ueatnau,  slightly  ;  Dennis  Garret,  badly.—  rota'  19.  List  of  men  wounded  in  his  Malesty's  ship  Meteor,  while  corn corning  ing corning  the  enemy  in  the  they  of  Rinds,  bet  Ween  the  7th  and  ipth  days  of  November,  IsoB.  David  Kent,  gunner  if  the  Ro1;11  Marine  Artillery,  lest  both  arms;  G.  Gale  and  Jos,  Hanes,  ditto,  slightly;  t,  Johnson,  seaman,  a  fracture;  Bactian  Rosatto,  ditto  s  slightly  ;  George  Ransden,  Quarter-Master.—Total  6.  Extract  of  another  Letter  front  Vice-Arnim'  Lord  Cnllingwond,  to  the  Hon.  W.  W.  Pole,  dated  on  board  the  Ocean,  Decem December  ber December  14,  1808.  111  y  letter  of  the  Ist  inst.  would  inform  you  of  the  enemy  hav having  ing having  laid  siege  to  the  C;lstle  of  Itosas,  and  of  the  measures  take,:  by  the  British  ships  in  that  Bay  in  aid  of  the  Spaniards  for  its  defence.  The  Scout  joined  the  squadron  off  Toulon  on  the  ith,  and  by  her  1  received  further  accounts  from  ('apt  Bennett,  of  the  Fame,  of  the  progress  the  enemy  was  making  against  that  important  fortress.  Captain  Lord  Cochrane  has  maintained  him himsetnself  setnself himsetnself  in  the  possession  of  Trinity  Castle  with  great  ability  and  heroism  ;  although  the  fort  is  laid  open  by  the  breach  in  its  works,  he  has  sustained  and  repelled  several  assaults,  having  formed,a  sort  of  rampart  within  the  breach,  with  his  ship's  ham hammock-cloths,  mock-cloths, hammock-cloths,  awnings,  &amp;c.  filled  with  sand  and  rubbish.  The  zeal  and  energy  with  which  he  has  maintained  that  fortress,  ex excites  cites excites  the  highest  admiration.  Ili;  resources  for  every  exigency  have  no  end.  The  Spanish  Governor  4,f  this  castle  is  wounded,  and  ou  board  the  Meteor,"
