text
"THE  NATIONAI,4  REGISTER.  its  'minion  resources  are  abandoned  to  his  discretion  ;  'and  the  few  states  which  now  maintain  a  shadow  of  independ independence,  ence, independence,  will  be  as  Subject  to  his  controul,  as  Holland  and  Italy  are  in  this  moment.  Who  is  there  among  us  that  csu  relied  on  the  possibility  of  such  an  event  without  moiety  ?  Sgvereign  master  of  the  resources  and  popula population  tion population  of  Spain,  Partugal,  Germany,  Italy,  the  Russian  and  Austrian  empires,  he  would  set  all  the  dock-yards  and  arsenals,  from  Trieste  to  Petersburgh,  at  work,  to  gratify  his  vengeance  against  this  country,  and  to  destroy  the  last  sanctuary  of  freedom  and  independence.  For  this  put.  , STYLE=superscript  pose,  the  shipping  and  mariners  of  Europe  woutd  be  cols  lected  in  five  or  six  convenient  ports,  from  the  mouth  of  the  Elbe.  to  that  of  the  Tagus,  and  Europe  compelled  to  furbish  money  and  soldiers  towards  the  execution  of  this  fa favorite  vorite favorite  enterprise.  Every  Government,  sunk  in  the  most  ab abject  ject abject  debasement,  to  avoid  incurring  his  indignation,  would  'vie  with  each  other  in4eal  and  readiness  to  execute  his  or orders;  ders; orders;  and  their  armies  and  treasures  be  employed  for  our  destruction.  The  immense  force  which  Austria  has  in  this  moment  to  support  her  own  independence,  would  be  marched  from  the  Danube  to  the  coasts  of  Holland  and  Brabant  ;  and  thus  a  formidable  army,  which  might  con contribute  tribute contribute  to  the  liberation  of  the  Continent,  be  employed  to  rivet  its  chains  for  ever.  Five  hundred  thousand  Russians,  roles,  Germans,  Italians,  and  Spaniards,  conducted  by  French  Officers,  and  encouraged  by  the  promised  plunder  of  our  islind,  could  be  kept  in  constant  readiness  to  in invade  vade invade  our  shores  ;  and  the  remorseless  tyrant,  indifferent  to  how  many  of  those  wretches  might  perish  in  the  attempt,  would  shasten  to  accomplish  its  execution.  Who  can  think  with  steadiness  on  the  possibility  of  such  an  event  !  Whatever  confidence  we  may  place  in  the  en:lin en:linsiastic  siastic en:linsiastic  courage  of  our  fellow  citizens;  and  however  certain  we  may  be  of  the  ultimate  extermination  of  the  invaders,  we  still  Inflect  wits  horror  on  the  misery,  desolsption  and  disorder,  that  mutt  accompany  their  footsteps,  Then  , STYLE=superscript  banditti  would  fall  victims  to  British  patriotism;  but  betom  they  fall.  there  is  not  a  family  in  England  that  would  not  have  cause  to  mourn  the  death  of  a  son,  or  husband,  and  the  outraged  virtue  of  a  daughter.  There  is  surely  none  among  us,  however  desirous  he  may  be  to  signalize  him himself  self himself  iu  the  service  of  his  country,  that  does  not  heartily  de deprecate  precate deprecate  the  possibility  of  a  similar  visitation.  This  calamitous  occurrence  is,  as  we  have  already  ob observed,  served, observed,  sooner  or  later  unavoidable,  should  the  enemy  be become  come become  uncontroulled  master  of  the  Continent,  by  the  con conquest  quest conquest  of  Spain.  On  the  occurrences  in  that  country  we  must  invariably  fix  our  attention  ;  and,  however  alarming  or  unpromising  the  present  aspect  of  its  affairs  may  be,  the  more  powerful  inducement  we  have  to  multiply  our  efforts  in  support  of  its  independence.  Nobody  will  deny  the  advantage  of  fighting  the  enemy  on  Spanish  ground,  rather  than  on  our  own,  or  in  Ireland.  If  honour,  there therefore,  fore, therefore,  and  the  pleasuac  of  rescuing  innocence  and  justice  faom  the  gripe  of  oppression  and  villainy,  have  no  influ influence  ence influence  on  our  determination,  let  the  most  imperious  interest,  and  the  strong  cry  of  self-preservation,  keep  us  faithful  to  our  engagements.  GM'  :AC  is  indissolubly  connected  with  theirs;  and  our  rxertions  m.  st  correspond  with  this  con-  Money  ,  arms,  and  clothes,  must  be  given  them  in  pro:usiou  ;  and  every  thin;  offered,  which  can  encourage  their  hopes,  or  excite  their  perseverance  under  the  arduous  diffi difficulties  culties difficulties  of  their  situation.  Their  cause  is  invincible,  their  resources  inexhaustible.  We  need  only  to  impress  this  JAN.  W.  conviction  on  their  minds,  by  our  perseverance  in  its  sup support,  port, support,  and  they  will  still  perform  what  their  first  efforts  le&amp;  us  to  expect.  Every  day,  every  week,  is  a  new  addition  of  'strength  to  them,.  and  a  diminution  of  that  of  the  enemy.  They  are  hurled  into  that  extraordinary  crisis,  which  it  sure  of  generating  great  talents  and  virtues.  Through  unavoidable  circumstances,  the  management  of  their  affairs  fell,  in  tho  beginning,  into  the  hands  of  ordinart  lueu—creattlre4  Of  intrigue  and  favour  ;  but  the  whirl  of  events  will  draw  inure  competent  persons  into  action.  If  a  CURSTA,  a  CASTAXOS,  and  a  AlnitlA,  prevented  the  full  efict  of  their  earls  enthusiasm,  the  present  oc‘  currenees,  so  favourable  to  the  bold  Ind  the  entetptising,  are  capable  of  creating  a  PALIFOIC,  in  every  province,  in  every  town.  The  young  and  the  enthusiastic,  in  the  ab absence  sence absence  or  relaxation  of  regular  authority,  will  seize  the  situation  most  conformable  to  their  talents  and  courage.  Nature  has  been  profuse  of  her  choicest  gifts  to  the  people  of  the  Peninsula,  and  the  present  fermentation  of  their  minds  will  excite  a  hardihood  of  thSnking  and  a,  force  of  '  sentiment  which  will  enable  them  to  devise,  as  well  as  execute,  the  boldest  projects.  After  this  view  of  their  character  and  situation,  too  obvious  to  be  mistaken,  we  cannot  conceive  the  instability  of  the  public  opinion  on  their  concerns.  Neither  our  judge  ments  nor  our  hopes  were  the  result  of  reflection,  aud  we  consequently  varied,  every  week,  from  enthusiasm  to  de depression,  pression, depression,  from  extravagance  to  despondency.  Unacquaint Unacquainted  ed Unacquainted  with  the  country,  its  resources  and  peculiarities,  we  created  a  chimerical  people—children  of  our  imagination  *  aud  fashioned  by  our  wishes.  Every  propitious  fairy  was  invited  to  bestow  some  peculiar  mark  of  her  favour  on  the  fondling  ;  and,  in  the  wildness  of  our  predilection,  we  would  conceive  no  modern  Spaniard  but  iu  the  dress  and  qaracter  of  La  Mancha's  hero.  This  extravagance  is  un.  wprthy  of  thinking  mien;  and  if  we  learn  to  appreciate  the.  Spaniards  as  they  really  arc—faithful  to  their  engage.  ments,  constant  in  their  pursuits,  and  with  a  sense  of  honour  bordering,  on  the  romantic,  we  will  cease  to  be  agitated  by  such  aguish  feelings  in  their  behalf,  and  our  esteem  and  support  will  be  more  rational  and  constant.  FOREIGN'  IN  TELLIGENCE.  FROM  THE  FRENCH  pdpves.  THE  TWENTY-FIRST  BULLETIN  begins  with  an  account  of  the  entrance  of  the'  Englisl  into  Spain,  on  the  29th  October,  and  gives  a  detail  of  our  operations  to  the  taking  of  General  Lefebvre,  on  the  29th  December.  On  the  28th  December,  Buonaparte's  head-quarters  were  at  Valdera3,  the  Marshal  soult  at  Maticilla,  and  the  Marshal  Ney  at  Viliafer.  The  weather  is  very  bad  ;  we  suffer,  but  the  English  suffer  more.  TWENTY-SECOND  BULLETIN.  BENEVENTE  )  JAN.  21.—The  head-quarters  of  the  French  wen  here  yesterday.  The  Marshal  Bessieres  passed  through  Benevente  un  the  30th  at  night,  and  pursued  the  enemy  to  Pio Pioente.  ente. Pioente.  The  flight  of  the  English  is  so  quick,  that  _they  leap;  their  sick  and  wounded  in  the  hospitals,  and  shoot  their  hones  that  were  fatigued  or  wounded—they  haven's°  been  obligert  tar  barn  a  superb  inagazine  of.cleathing,  &amp;c.  All  the  Germans  in  the  bervice  csf  the  desert.  The  French  army  will  be  this  evening  at  Astorga,  and  near  the  confines  of  Galicia."
