text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER..  circumstances  in  which  our  army  was  placed  ;  but  there  was  one  circumstance  which  called  for  the  attention  of  this  House,  that  none  of  the  Generals  had  ever  received  any  communications  from  the  Noble  Lord,  impressing  on  them  the  necessity  of  the  absolute  reduction  of  the  Freuch  force,  which  ought  to  have  been  the  main  oluect  of  the  expedition.  And  hence  the  country  had  to  lament  that  convention,  which  transferred  a  French  army  from  Portugal  into  Spain,  the  principal  scene  of  action;  which  made  that  efficient  which  was  actually  locked  up  ;  'whilst  the  usual  expectations  of  the  country  were  disappointed,  and  the  honour  of  our  military  character  was  tarnished,  by  our  agreeing  to  a  Convention  with  an  army  that  had  been  twice  beaten,  while  we  had  30,000  troops  in  the  field.  The  Noble  Lord  then  addressing  the  Speaker,  observed,  You,  Sir,  in  one  of  your  eloquent  ad addresses  dresses addresses  to  the  Officers  who  had  distinguished  themselves  in  Por Portugal,  tugal, Portugal,  said  that  their  swords  had  not.  been  drawn  in  It  'was  true,  that  they  had  gained  themselves  distinguished  honour.  said  the  Noble  Lord,  I  would  ask  of  the  people  of  Spain,  of  the  people  of  Biscay,  who  have  tracked  the  desolat desolattug  tug desolattug  footsteps  of  that  very  army  which  you  released  from  Portu Portugal,  gal, Portugal,  to  send  it  to  the  very  scene  of  action,  whether  the  British  sword  had  been  drawn  in  vain  ?  I  would  ask  our  countrymen,  who  lost  their  last  blood  at  the  battle  of  Corunna,  who  were  the  troops  that  followed  up  their  retreat,  and  harrassed  their  march  ?  They  would  answer,  the  very  army  of  Junut,  which  the  Convention  had  released.  I  would  ask  the  gallant  regiment  who  took  the  only  French  General  that  was  taken  in  the  battle  of  Corunna,  and  they  would  tell  me  they  had  the  misfortutie  to  find  him  a  General  released  by  that  Convention.  I  would  ask  the  people  of  Portugal,  whoa)  you  are  now  compelled  to  aban abandon,  don, abandon,  or  have  already  abandoned,  whether,  as  to  them  at  least,  the  British  sword  has  not  been  dram'  in  vain.  The  Noble  Lord  then  concluded  a  very  able  and  brilliant  speech  by  moving,  as  his  first  ResOlution,  Thai  the  Convention  of  Cintra  had  disappointed  the  just  hopes  and  expectations  of  the  If  nose  and  of  the  Lord  CASTLEtt  E.t  expressed  his  high  satisfaction  that  the  moment  was  now  arrived  when  'his  Majesty's  Ministers  would  have  an  opportunity  of  explaining  their  motives,  and  justifying  their  conduct  with  respect  to  the  late  expedition  to  Portugal.  It  appeared  that,  small  as  the  force  was,  under  General  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley,  it  might  be  - STYLE=superscript  applied,  in  the  mean  time  to  some  important  object,  and  they  therefore  did  not  wait  till  the  additional  ten  thousaad  troops  should  be  ready  to  join  them;  and  he  did  not  believe  that  the  Noble  Lord  himself  would  have  advised  them  to  keep  the  force  under  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley,  joined  by  the  troops,  as  they  were  to  he,  from  Gibraltar,  under  General  Spencer,  in  a  state  of  total  inattivity,  till  this  additi additional  onal additional  embarkation  was  ready,  when  there  was  such  immediate  and  pressing  demand  for  assistance,  both  in  Spain  and  Portu Portugal.  gal. Portugal.  In  such  circumstances  it  was  thought  most  advisable  to  allow  the  General  some  discretionary  power,  who  would  be  best  able  to  judge  where  his  services  might  he  most  useful,  from  his  vicinity  to  the  scene  of  operations,  and  shifting  every  day,  as  that  scene  necessarily  was,  though  at  the  same  time  the  'ob 'object  ject 'object  of  the  ex  pedition  was  by  no  means  left  undefined.  Govern Government  ment Government  knew  well  that  there  was  a  considerable  movement  in  the  North  of  Spain  and  in  Portugal,  similar  movements  had  also  been  expected  in  the  South  of  Spain,  where  Sir  Arthur  11  el ellesley  lesley ellesley  might  have  been  equally,  if  not  more  useful.  In  these  expectations,  however,  they  were  disappointed,  and  it  re remained  mained remained  for  his  gallant  friend  to  follow  up  the  first  ob  ject  of  the  expedition,  and  to  repair  immediately  to  Portu Portugal.  gal. Portugal.  The  Junta  in  Spain,  instead  of  asking  our  assistance  for  themselves,  in  preference  to  Portugal,  approved,  on  the  contrary,  of  assisting  the  latter  Power,  and  had  given  it  as  their  opinion,  that  our  force  would  be  able  to  contribute  more  to  the  general  cause  by  opposing  the  enemy  in  Portugal,  and  driving  'him  out  of  that  country,'  than  by  any  assistance  that  could  be  given  to  themselves  in  the  circumstances  they  then  were  The  Noble  Lord  then  adverted  at  great  length  to  the  equipment  of  the  expedition,  and  contended  that  in  every  respect  it  was  perfectly  adequateto  the  nature  of  the  service  for  which  it  vvas  designed.  It  had  provisions  for  three  mouths,  besides  provi provisions  sions provisions  for  other  two  months  on  board  the  transports.  The  only  difficulty  to  be  experienced,  was  in  procuring  the  means  of  car carrying  rying carrying  with  them  the  necessary  stores  and  provisions  on  landing,  and  this,  from  the  very  nature  of  the  service,  must  have  been  trusted  to  the  resources  of  the  country  that  was  to  become  the  scene  of  their  operations.  nail  horses  been  provided  ..for  ail  thew  necessary  pniposes  ,  anti  formed  a  part  of  the  equ  ipme  nt.  his  Lordship  provCd,  that,  for  any  army  of  thirty  thousand  men,  not  less  than  fifteen  thousand  horses  would  have  been  necessary.  The  Noble  Lord  denied  that  any  inconveniency  had  been  expe experieuced  rieuced experieuced  from  the  want  of  heavy  artillery,  and  concluded  by  moving  the  previous  question,  but  stated,  that  he  should  after  wards  take  the  sense  of  the  House  on  the  propriety  and  prin..  ciple  of  the  expedition.  Sir  Attrncu  W  R  ILE'  LEY  thought  that  Administration  who  had  resolved  upon  the  expedition  responsible  for  their  resolution  ;  but  that  the  otlicers  who  conducted  it  alone  were  responsible  fur  its  operations.  W  hen  he  landed  in  ,Spain,  (be  Junta  of  Oviedo  declined  his  services  at  that  time  in  their  own  country,  but  re recommended  commended recommended  to  him  to  go  and  expel  the  French  from  Portugal.  It  was  his  t;pinion,  as  well  as  that  of  officers  under  his  orders,  that  the  French  would  endeavour  to  cross  the  Tagus,  and  the  plan  of  operations  he  had  suggested,  would  have  completely.  counteracted  that  measure,  as,  had  they  been  followed  up  in  lime  after  fte  battle  of  the  '2lst,  the  project  of  crossing  the  river  would  have  been  impractittble.  lie  stated,  that  when  he  left  town,  he  did  not  expect  to  remain  long  in  the  chief  command,  whatever  kindness  he  might  receive  from  his  Noble  Friend  near  him;  but  lie  hoped  Ministers  would  in  future  act  with  more  con consideration  sideration consideration  in  superseding  an  officer  who  may  go  on  an  expedition,  in  the.  middle  of  his  operations  (Hear!  hear!).  Although  his  opinion  was  contrary  to  that  of  Sir  11.  Burrard,  he  wished  by.  no  means  to  be  considered  as  the  accuser  of  that  Officer.  (Hear!  hear  !).  lie  was  always  of  opinion  that  the  terms  of  the  Conven Convention  tion Convention  were  favourable  to  this  country,  and  had  the  British  Offseert  not  agreed  to  theta  in  September,  they  would  have  been  glad  to  grant  them  in  December.  As  to  tin:,  Court  of  Enquiry,  before  which  he  had  been  called,  he  trusted  that  it  would  be  the  last  that  would  ever  sit  in  this  country,  as  its  proceedings  could  never  give  satisfaction  like  a  Court  Martial.  Mr.  W  it  !THREAD  said,  that  Ministers  had  received  an  attack  during  the  debate  which  they  could  not  effectually  resist  whit  all  their  troops.  At  one  time  they  had  told  the  puhiic  that  the  Treaty  of  (Intro  bad  disappointed  the  hopes  of  the  nation,  and  they  came  forward,  on  cool  reflection,  to  inform  the  Douse,  that  the  disapprobation  expre.sed  against  that  treaty  wits  not  well  founded.  A  gallant  General  on  the  other  side  of  the  Douse  had  said,  if  his  opinion  had  been  followed,  that  the  French  would  have  been  expelled  front  Portugal,  yet  he  would  not  vote  ag  ainst  the  Treaty.  The  Noble  Lord  (  ('  astiereegh)  had  acknowledgof  that  the  treaty  had  met  the  displeasure  of  the  country,  and  res.  fused  to  vote  ag  ainst  it,  because  the  Noble  lord  knew  that  the  blame  must  fall  on  'Ministers.  The  mistakes  and  blunders  of  Ministers  required  explanation.  The  people  of  England  had  a  right  to  be  satisfied,  and  they  ought  to  he  satisfied.  Ile  concluded  a  most  animated  speech  by  censuring  the  general  conduct  of  Ministers.  Against  the  motion,  203—For  the  motion  153—Majority  be:  —Adjourned.  Wednesday,  Feb.  22.  Sir  John  Newport  presented  a  Petition  against  the  Corn  Dis:  tillery  Bill.  THE  DUKE  OF  YORK.  -  _  hcit  Colonel  Hamilton  examined  by  Lord  MILTON.—Q.  W  did  Colonel  Hamilton  first  learn  that  Captain  Bosley  Sandi)  had  the  note  produced  before  this  House  as  the  note  of  his  Royal  Ilighoess  the  Duke  of  York  ?  A.  Captain  H.  *uion  ittforioNl  me,  that  such  a  note  was  in  his  possession  immediately,  or  very  shortly  after,  his  arrival  at  l'ortsmouth.—Q.  Did  he  give  you  this  information  before  or  after  the  Inquiry  institutea  in  this  II  wise?  A.  It  was  after  the  Inquiry.—Q.  Did  he  then  show  you  any  papers,  and  amongst  them  this  note  ?  A.  Yes,  he  did  ;  I  had  no  suspicion  at  that  time  that  it  was  a  forgery.=  Q.  Did  you,  on  seeing  the  note  alluded  to,  desire  Captaiu  Sandon  nut  to  destrOy  it  ?  A.  I  did  particularly  desire  Q.  When  was  it  then  that  Capt.  uxley  Sandon  first  told  its}  that  the  note  was  destroyed  ?  A.  After  I  had  seen  ll  r.  Adam.  —Q.  Did  you  then  converse  about  the  note  ?  A.  Yes;  he  said,  Col.  Hamilton,  I  have  destroyed  the  note;  l  am  very  sorry  that  in  so  doing  , STYLE=superscript  1  saw  him  again  in  Oxford-street,  on  tht  morning  of  his  examination  in  this  House.  lie  then  told  nie  that  HE  HAD  NOT  DE  S  TROYED  TUE  NOTE,  but  world  nut  pro produce  duce produce  it.---Q.  Did  he  assign  uo  reason  fur  this  reserve,  this  keep keeping  ing keeping  bark  of  the  note  ?A.  None  whatever.—Q.  Whet'  did  you  first  hear  of  the  note  in  question?  A.  The  note  was  stated  to  me  by  Capt.  Sandon  to  be  in  his  poskiession,  together  with  other  papers,  on  our  first  eonversaSion  at  Portsmoufie  T  -The  sum,  to  lie  g  iiru  - STYLE=superscript  for  obtaining  the  permission  to  raise  the  levy  .svas  to  be  6001„  This  matter  went  on  for  soute.time,  but  tibrovit  ehanue;  it  was  negotiated,  Capt.  )  e  sot,,  J  tthat  it  had  been  regular  asid  otlicial,  mid  Abe  ausw  erS  were  iu  the  lame  way.  Some  time  after  this,  tie  had  .  24  appiicalinti  ipaislp  to  him  re,  spectiog  ,  Capt.  Thiry)  promotiost  for*  ntakrity,  (or  ‘V.Liclt  he  was  to  give  him  SVO  guiueis  upon  being  satetteil.  (41.  To  031;  I  P5_TB00008 IliC  .11151.  111,11CJ  dllll  L.  peLIiLLIIIIIS  ill  lilt:  11  011!•C  inn'  tog  Inc  •_.trussu  I  .!  •  Lord  CAsTLEtt  E.t  Gut  expressed  his  high  satisfaction  that  the  founded.  A  gallant  General  on  the  other  side  of  the  House  had  moment  was  now  arrived  when  'his  Majesty's  Ministers  would  said,  if  his  opinion  had  been  followed,  that  the  French  would  have  an  opportunity  of  explaining  their  motives,  and  justifying  have  been  expelled  front  Portugal,  yet  he  would  not  vote  against  their  conduct  with  respect  to  the  late  expedition  to  Portugal.  the  Treaty.  The  Noble  Lord  (('astleree.gh)  had  acknovoledgof  It  appeared  that,  small  as  the  force  was,  under  General  Sir  that  the  treaty  had  met  the  displeasure  of  the  country,  and  re  , STYLE=superscript  Arthur  Wellesley,  it  might  be  - STYLE=superscript  applied,  in  the  mean  time  to  fused  to  vote  against  it,  because  the  Noble  Lord  knew  that  the  tso  ne  important  object,  and  they  therefore  did  not  wait  till  the  blame  must  fall  on  Ministers.  The  mistakes  and  blunders  of  f  additional  ten  thousaad  troops  should  be  ready  to  join  them  ;  Ministers  require  d STYLE=superscript  e STYLE=superscript  xp  lanatiou. STYLE=superscript  The STYLE=superscript  p  eo STYLE=superscript  p  le STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  England STYLE=superscript  had STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  i  l  said  he  did  not  believe  that  the  Noble  Lord  himself  would  have  right  to  be  satisfied  , STYLE=superscript  and  they  oug  ht STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  he STYLE=superscript  satisfied.  He  concluded  advised  them  to  keep  the  force  under  Sir  Arthur  Wellesley,  a  most  animated  speech  by  ce  nsurin STYLE=superscript  g  the STYLE=superscript  g  eneral STYLE=superscript  conduct STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  joined  by  the  troops,  as  they  were  to  he,  from  Gibraltar,  under  Ministers.  4  General  Spencer,  in  a  state  of  total  inattivity,  till  this  additi-  onal  embarkation  was  ready,  when  there  was  such  immediate  and  pressing  demand  for  assistance,  both  in  Spain  and  Portu-  gal.  In  such  circumstances  it  was  thought  most  advisable  to  Wednesday,  Feb.  22.  allow  the  General  some  discretionary  power,  who  would  be  Sir  John  Newport  presented  a  Petition  against  the  Corn  Dig  : STYLE=superscript  best  able  to  judge  where  his  services  might  he  most  useful,  from  his  vicinity  to  the  scene  of  operations,  and  shifting  every  day,  Tun  DUKE  OF  YORK.  as  that  scene  necessarily  was,  though  at  the  same  time  the  'ob-  ject  of  the  expedition  was  by  no  means  left  undefined.  Govern-  did  Colonel  Hamilton  first  learn  that  Captain  H  uxle STYLE=superscript  y  Sandi) STYLE=superscript  ment  knew  well  that  there  was  a  considerable  movement  in  the  North  of  Spain  and  in  Portugal,  similar  movements  had  also  been  expected  in  the  South  of  Spain,  where  Sir  Arthur  11  . STYLE=superscript  el-  W*ollll  1  me,  that  such  a  note  was  in  his  possession  immedia  te STYLE=superscript  ly,  Lesley  might  have  been  equally,  if  not  more  useful.  In  these  or  very  shortly  after,  his  arrival  at  Portsmou  th.— STYLE=superscript  Q  . STYLE=superscript  Did STYLE=superscript  h STYLE=superscript  e  expectations,  however,  they  were  disappointed,  and  it  re-  ii  .A  lAe  g  rdyj  a  o  in  ßu  s  ri  t  lai  t  c.  h  d  e  .  motion,  203—__For  file  motion  153—Majority  be:  Colonel  Hamilton  exatnined  by  Lord  MILTON  .  — STYLE=superscript  Q  . STYLE=superscript  W STYLE=superscript  It STYLE=superscript  o  had  the  nine  produced  before  this  House  as  the  n  ot STYLE=superscript  e  of STYLE=superscript  his STYLE=superscript  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  York  ?  A.  Capla  i STYLE=superscript  u  H. STYLE=superscript  *o  nio STYLE=superscript  n  :4  give  you  this  information  before  or  after  the  Inquiry  i  nst STYLE=superscript  i  tute STYLE=superscript  d  ~..,,  .  I.  1  ,  1  !  '  mained  for  his  gallant  friend  to  follow  up  the  first  object  of  the  expedition,  and  to  repair  immediately  to  Portu-  gal.  The  Junta  in  Spain,  instead  of  asking  our  tusistance  for  themselves,  in  preference  to  Portugal,  approved,  on  the  contrary,  of  assisting  the  latter  Power,  and  had  given  it  as  their  him.-  -Opinion,  that  our  force  would  be  able  to  contribute  more  to  the  E  i  t  o  ier  o  a  u  l  t  c  i  i  o  t  f  us  t  e  h.  lyopposing  the  enemy  in  Portugal,  country,'  than  by  any  assistance  given  to  themselves  in  the  circumstances  they  then  were  that  could  be  —Q.  Did  Noble  Lord  then  adverted  at  great  length  to  the  equipment  of  the  expedition,  and  contended  that  in  every  respect  it  was  perfectly  adequate-to  the  nature  oldie  service  for  which  it  was  designed.  It  had  provisions  for  three  mouths  ,  besides  provi-  sions  for  other  two  months  on  board  the  transports.  The  only  j  ug  difficulty  to  be  experienced,  was  in  procuring  the  means  of  car-  rying  with  them  the  necessary  stores  and  provisions  on  landing,  and  this,  from  the  very  nature  of  the  service,  Must  have  been  trusted  to  the  resources  of  the  country  that  was  to  become  the  scene  of  their  operations.  Ilad  horses  been  provided  -for  ail  these  necessary  pOrposes„  and  formed  a  part  of  the  equipment.  his  Lordship  provPd,  that,  for  any  army  of  thirty  thousand  oleo  ,  ill  this  llonse?  A.  It  was  after  the  Inquiry.—Q.  t)id  he  then  show  you  any  papers,  and  amongst  them  this  note?  A.  Yes,  lie  did  ;  I  had  no  buspi  c  i  o  n  at  that  time  that  it  was  a  forgery.—  (,),  Did  von,  on  seeing  the  note  alluded  to,  desire  Captaia  11.  Sandon  nut  to  destroy  it  ?  A.  I  did  particularly  desire  Q.  When  was  it  then  that  Capt.  Iluxley  Sandon  first  told  'yea  and  driving  that  the  note  was  destroyed  ?  A.  After  I  had  seen  Mr.  Ad;puila  you  then  converse  about  the  note  ?  A.  Yes;  he  said,  The  Hamilton,  I  have  destroyed  the  note;  I  am  very  sorry  that  in  so  doing  , STYLE=superscript  1  saw  him  again  in  Oxford-street,  on  OF  morning  of  his  examination  in  this  House.  lie  then  told  me  *  that  Inn  HAD  NOT  DETROY  ED  TuE  NOTE,  but  would  nut  pen-  designed.  it.---Q.  Did  he  assign  no  reason  for  this  Tezerve,  this  keep-  bark  of  the  note  ?  A.  None  whatever.—Q.  When  did  you  first  hear  of  the  note  in  question?  A.  The  note  was  stated  to  inc  by  Capt.  Sandon  to  he  in  his  powssion,  together  with  other  papers,  on  our  first  conversation  at  Portsmotah,s-,-The  sum.  to  be  gi  o  i-eil  - STYLE=superscript  foe  obtaining  the  prrmission  to  raise  ,tie  leiey  was  to  be  6001,  This  matter  went  on  for  s.ouie.time,_  bat  iltrottgh  Irina  ehanuel  it  was  negotiated,  Capt.  Saudou.s  o  aid.)le  knew  sot,,  Wiat  it  Ekad  been  regular  acid  official,  and  Abe  answerS  iwere  in  the  pine  way,  i  ~  iA  not  less  than  fifteen  thousand  horses  wonid  have  been  necessary.  Some  time  after  this,  lie  had  au  apPlicafinn  ii  k  slis  to  hins  re,  $  The  Noble  Lord  denied  that  any  inconveniency  had  been STYLE=superscript  ex STYLE=superscript  p  e- STYLE=superscript  spectiog  Capt.  Tonyn's  promotion  for*  majoyity,  (or  he  .  .  _.  rimed  froth  the  want  of  heavy  artillery,  and  concluded  hl  was  to  give  him  SVO  g  uineas  upon  being  f  o  itiettcd.  (41.  'fumy  - STYLE=superscript  0  ;,;  ,"
