text
"APRIL  23.  so  much  effort,  and  so  much  success,  the  general  issue  would  have  been  verfdifferent,  - STYLE=superscript  and  Europe  would  not  have  to  reckon  so  many  Nations  subdued,  'and  so  many  millions  extirpated.  The  attack  on  the  Brest  Fleet  was  made  on  the  llth  of  April,  at  eight  o'clock  in  the  evening.  The  attacking  squadron,  as  it  would  appear  by  the  Gazette,  for  this  offi official  cial official  narrative  is  in  some  degree  confused,  consisted  of  two  divisions,--the  covering  squadron  of  Lord  COCURANE,  and  he  fire-ships  led  on  by  Capt.  WootnninGE,  in  the  Mediator.  The  Wind  blowing  from  the  Northward  impelled  them,  of  coarse  on  the  enemy,who  were  anchored  to  the  Southward,  and  the  freshness  of  it,  together  with  the  consequent  heavy  sea,  gave  a  momentum  to  the  Mediator,  which  enabled  it  to  break  the  boom,  or  chain,  by  which  the  approach  to  the  enemy's  fleet  was  defended.  The  French  forts  and  shipping  opposed  the  assault  by  a  very  heavy  fire,  but  the  bravery  of  the  British  seamen  overcame  all  obstacles,  and  compelled  the  enemy  to  run.  their  vessels  on  shore.—Seven  of  their  vessels  accordingly  grounded,  five  of  which,  however,  got  into  the  Charente  before  day-light.  On  the  following  day,  the  12th,  about  two  o'clock,  Lord  CocKaANE  led  the  attack  in  the  lmperieuse,  and  opened  his  fire  on  the  Calcutta,  which  very  speedily  struck  her  colours  ;  the  Yille  de  Varsovie  and  the  Aquilon,  were  then  successively  attacked,  and  successively  surrendered.  The  prisoners  were  removed,  and  they  were  set  on  fire.  The  enemy  themselves  destroyed  the  Tonnerre,  seeing  it  impos impossible  sible impossible  to  save  it.  The  Vile  de  Varsovie  was  a  80  gun,  the  Tonnerre  a  64,  the  Aquillon  a  74,  and  the  Calcutta  a  56.  On  the  night  of  the  12th  another  attempt  was  made  to  fire  the  *ships  on  shore,  but  from  the  shallowness  of  the  water  it  was  deemed  more  prudent  to  abandon  it.  The  vessels  likewise  which  had  escaped  into  the  Charente,  were  separated  beyond  the  reach  of  present  attack.  The  Gazette  here  concludes  with  a  well  merited  compli.  ment  to  Lord  Cocriamsc,  who  certainly  seems  to  be  tread treading  ing treading  in  the  steps  of  the  lamented  NELSON,  and  who,  if  Pro Providence  vidence Providence  shall  preserve  his  life,  will  doubtless  obtain  the  same  eminence  of  glory  and  reputation.  It  is  truly  conso consolatory  latory consolatory  to  the  feelings  of  the  country,  that  in  times  Of  such  :peril  and  difficulty  heaven  seems  to  have  given  us  men,  suited  to  the  occasion.  There  is  no  languor,  no  reluctance;  no  despair  of  the  public  cause,  either  in  our  fleets  or  in  out  armies  ;  our  soldiers  and  sailors  go  forth  in  the  full  assur assurance  ance assurance  of  victory,  and  this  laudable  assurance,  this  noble  confidence,  enables  them  to  accomplish  their  expectations.  Long  may  this  spirit  continue,  for  so  long  will  otir  country  not  only  be  safe,  but  glorious.  The  result  of  this  glorious  affair  therefore  is,  that  the  lii-est  fleet  has  disappeared  from  the  surface  of  the.  seas  ;  fir::  sail  have  been  destroyed,  three  driven  on  shore,  and  the  commander  of  the  fleet  compelled  to  run  into  the  Cha Charente,  rente, Charente,  which  is  certainly  not  either  a  safe  or  a'  favourable  station,  or  . STYLE=superscript  it  would  have  been  taken  before.  The  wit&amp;  of  our  losi  consists  of  two  officers  and  eight  men  kilted,  and  sixteen  officers  and  two  men  wounded.  The  accounts  were  brought  to  the  Admiralty  by  Sir  HENRY  B.  NzaLE,  the  first  Captain  of  Lord  GA.151111E12.  The  intelligence  was.  immediately  communicated  to  the  Loan  MA  von,  and  through  him  to  the  Public.  •  The  Park  and  Tower  guns  were  fired  at  five  o'clock,  and  at  night-fall  the  Public  Buildings,  the  Horse  Guards,  Trea Treasury,  sury, Treasury,  Foreign  Office  in  Downing-street;  Somerset  Douse,  and  all  the  other  Public  Offices,  were  brilliantly  *llluminata."
