text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  contend  agaiost  the  fortunes  and  genius  of  a  BONAPA  it  TE.  Thtl  look,  or  rogues  F  (1  am'  at  a  loss  which  name  io  give  thew,  though  they  are,  perhaps,  a  composition  of  knavery  and  imbecillity,)  with  a  particle  of  understanding  and  in integrity  tegrity integrity  they  would  comprehend,  that  such  sentiments,  it  .  yuiversally  adopted,  would  place  this  country  in  the  same  deplorable  state  of  abandonment  and  misery,  in  which  the  greater  part  of  the  continent  is  now  raced  is  consequence  of  the  propagation  of  similar  doctrines.  Some  gloomy  visionaries,  brooding,.  iu  the  silence  and  sp.een  of  solitude,  over  the  vices  of  social  institutions,  and  lettin  these  monitrons  conceptions  of  a  bewildered  and  sickly  imagi imagigination  gination imagigination  loose  among  their  countrymen,  completely  under undermined  mined undermined  those  attachments,  which  men,  in  every  age  and  Clime,  instinctively  feel  for  the  place  they  are  born  in.—  Tbeir  country  and  themselves  were  crushed  under  the  ruins  of  a  pile  which  nature  herself  had  erected  as  the  burest  prvp  of  socie:y  and  Government.  But  this.  madness  is  almost  peculiar  to  our  age.  The  duties  forninrly  imposed  on  the  members  of  a  community,  allowed  them  neither  time,  nor  leisure,  to  indulge  in  such  speculations:—They  were  satisfied  to  serve  their  country  ;  and  they  performed  that  service  with  a  zeal,  an  ardour,  a  disinterestedniss,  which  we  condemn  as  romantic,  reject  as  prosperity  of  the  community  proved,  however,  the  siiperiorit)  of  practical,  over  speculative  pa patriotism  triotism patriotism  :  And  iY  au  enthusiastic  leveller,  or  an  ambitious  demagogue,  urged  the  necessity  of  innovation,  they  fell,  almost  invariably,  victims  to  their  mistaken  zeal,  or  crimi criminal  nal criminal  restlessness  ;  ,for  t%e  people  loved  their  institutions  too  ardently,  with  too  much  veneration,  as  to  consent  to  their  becoming  the  sport  of  novelty  or  passion.  But  Ido  not  recollect.  Sir,  in.  the  whMe  course  of  Grecian  or  Roman  history,  a  singic  instance  where  either  of  this  description  of  innovators  was  guilty  of  the  temerity,  in  order  to  promote  _  _  the  attainment  of  his  views,  to  panegyrize  the  conduct  and  talents  of  a  hostile  government`,  This  monstrous  novelty  was  reserved  for  our  philanthropic  and  enlightened  centu century;  ry; century;  and  iii  the  decay  of  Christianity,  we  seem  inclined  to  carry  even  to  excess  the  sublime  theory  of  love  your  In  countries  and  ages  over  which  we  vaunt  our  intellectual  and  social  improvement,  this  refinement  was  unknown  ;  and  the  idea  of  a  Roman  Senator  extolling,  in  a  full  Senate,  the  character  of  Hannibal,  after  his  unjustif:-  able  attack  on  Saguntum,  appears  so  extravagant,  an:l  con contradictory  tradictory contradictory  in  our  received  notions  of  that  magnanimous  Assembly,  that  we  reject  it  with  disdain,  and  something  approaching  to  horror.  I  am  unwilling,  Sir,  to  press  this  question  on  yogi  too  far;  because  l  sincerely  admire  your  talents,  and  venerate  your  private  virtues.  You  should  not  forget,  however,  the  encouragement  which  the  sanction  of  your  name  and  merit  gives  to  those  miserable  and  unprincipled.  wretches,  who,  without  talents  and  virtue,  have  no  pretensions  to  c  notice,  than  by  a  systematic  attack  of  every  thing  great  in  point  of  theory,  venerable  for  its  antiquity,  or  cemmendable  for  its  use.  Employ  rather  that  influence  which  your  popularity,  fortune,  and  knowledge,  give  you,  in  counteracting  the  etre'  is  of  domestic  traitors  and  foreign  foes,  to  destroy  the  noblest  fabric  of  the  wisdom  of  ages,—  the  Constitution  of  this  country.  Let  your  voice  be  heard  for  the  future  in  supporting,  instead  of  depressing,  the  dr►►oping  spirits  of  mankind,  and  in  s!.itnulating  thr.nr  to  maintain  their  intlcrendeuce  against  the  most  revolting  FEB.  5.  andatrucious  despotism  that  ever  harrassed  or  disgraced  the  world.  Appear  the  magnanimous  and  ardent  advocate  of  an  outraged  and  struggling  community  ;  for  there  is  some something  thing something  meanner  than  baseness,  or  more  dastardly  than  cow cowardice,  ardice, cowardice,  to  advise  abandoning  the  Spanish  patriots  after  they  had  implored  our  protection,  and  appealed  to  British  ge generosity,  nerosity, generosity,  to  the  brutality,  insolence,  and,  rapacity,  of  their  terocious  .  invaders.  Or  can  you  think,  without  horror,  of  naving  your  name  associated  in  the  judgments  and  execra execrations  tions execrations  of  future  generations,  with  those  of  the  ruffians  who  arc  now  weltering  in  the  blood,  and  rioting  in  the  plunder  of  eleven  millions  of  Spaniards  I  For  he  assured,  Sir,  this  tre tremendous,  mendous, tremendous,  censure  of  a  more  impartial  and  virtuout  race  of  men,  awaits  you,  and  every  other  Member  of  the  British  Senate,  should  you  recommend  to  your  countrymen  to  dis discontinue  continue discontinue  their  efforts  in  support  of  innocence,  freedom,  and  justice.  I  am  far  from  being  your  enemy,  Sir,  and  am,  therefore,  disinclined  to  take  you  at  your  word,  when  you  advert  to  the  sinking  and  degraded  state  of  this  country.—Much  al allowance  lowance allowance  must  and  ought  to  be  made  for  a  number  of  un unwarrantable  warrantable unwarrantable  expressions  that  are  used  in  the  heat  of  poli political  tical political  contention.  The  British  islands  are  not  in  that  de deplorable  plorable deplorable  state;  and  I  entertain  that  opinion  of  your  good  souse,  as  to  think  that  you  arc  one  of  the  last  men  exist existing  ing existing  that  would  be  deceived  by  an  assertion  of  the  kind  an  the  part  of  another.  I  deplore,  however,  the  existence  of  those  fatal  passions  which  can  extort  from  an  honest  man  a  confession,  disapproved  by  his  conscience,  and  contrary  to  his  conviction.  Declarations  of  thin  kind,  even  if  true,  are  attended  with  no  possible  benefit,  but  may  be  produc productive  tive productive  of  signal  disadvantage;—as  they  tend  to  delude  and  dispirit  a  numerous  and  highly  useful  class  of  the  public.  Contrast,  Sir,  your  disheartening  sentiment,  with  the  manly  and  inspiring  principles  of  Mr.  CANNING  ;  which,  were  they  as  erroneous  as  they  are  founded  on  the  immutable  prin principles  ciples principles  oftruth,  justice,  and  sound  policy,  would  be  capable  of  creating  a  degree  of  spirit  and  constancy,  more  than  suf sufficient  ficient sufficient  to  counteract  the  danger  they  may  occasion.  '  speak  to  you  with  canda  ur  and  without  the  slightest  reserve  ;  for  a  few  men  of  your  disinterestedness,  zeal,  and  courage,  in  times  like  ours,  would  be  an  invaluable  acqui acquisition  sition acquisition  to  the  cause  of  freedom  and  humanity.  But  that  part  of  your  conduct,  which  appears  to  me  most  unintelligible,  and  least  capable  of  defence,  is  the  pertinacity  with  which  you  insist  on  the  expediency  of  ne negotiating  gotiating negotiating  with  the  enemy.  This  is  a  subject  of  such  vast  importance,  and  embraces  so  many  and  such  complicated  interests,  that  it  impresses  a  more  than  ordinary  seriousness,  and  excites  an  accountable  sensation  as  often  as  we  refer  to  it.  Peace  is  se  desirable  a  blessing  ;  and  in  the  idea  of  indeterminate  and  unlimited  warfare  there  i  t  s  something  so  diocking  and  even  ferocious,  that  the  most  unprincipled  and  unfeeling  ruffian  would  recoil  at  the  image  of  never neverceasing  ceasing neverceasing  antipathy  between  people  and  people.  The  plun plunder  der plunder  of  cities  and  provinces,—the  ruin  and  separation  of  families,--tile  subversion  of  thrones,  and  an  alarming  re re,  , re,  taxation  of  morals,—these  calamities  more  particularly  dis distinguish  tinguish distinguish  the  present  contest  more  than  any  other  in  modern  times.  If  .  sacrifices,  consistent  with  independance  and  bo•  nonr,  for  without  them  life  itself  is  not  worth  enjoying,  c•luld  aThrd  c  - STYLE=superscript  -,•!!1:  a  reasonable  hope  of  removing  these  complicated  evils,  there  is  no  man  who  would  not  willingly  subscribe  to  them.  But,  good  God  1  Sit,  cao  you  eutcr-"
