text
"n°-,  &#34;'&#34;'&#34;&#34;&#34;'&#34;-&#34;&#34;---.&#34;  By  the  ATTORN  1;  V-(11;  NER  AL.  Q.  Were  the  sersantsat  ciloweester-place  Mrs.  Clarke's  servants?  A.  Yes,  as  .far  as  1  I%  .  ueur.  Q.  Wtsre  the  dirrtaioas  given  htir  the  Duke  of  York,  tiat  none  hut  xon  should  go  to  his  Ro3  al  Highness;  at  Gloucester-place  ?  A.  Yec.  Q.  When  his  Royal  llighn  , STYLE=superscript  7.ss  asked  whether  you  ever  carried  a  vow  to  he  changed  from  that  place,  what  dirt  you  iinmediately  answer  A.  I  told  him  I  was  ccrtaiti  that  I.dia  not  carry  any  note  to  he  changed.  •  Q.  Can  the  witoesi  say  positively  that  he  neverdid  ?  A.  Yes,  I  can.  Q.  I  wish  the  witness  to  state  as  nearly  as  be  can  posibly  re recollect,  collect, recollect,  •whayriassed  between  Mr.  Adam,  Mr.  W  ilkinson,  and  others,  'and  ltitnself,  on  this  subject.--?l.  Mr.  Adam  asked  em',  if  ever  I  was  in  the  habit  of  going  to  Gloucester-place;  I  tisld  him  I  was.  lie  as.ked  me  whether  I  ever  carried  a  note  to  e-ltat4;e  ;  I  told  him  I  never  did.  Mr.  I,owten,  and  Mr.  Wil Wilkin.;on  kin.;on Wilkin.;on  a•ked  me  the  sante  questions,  and  1  gave  the  same  an answer;.  swer;. answer;.  :tlr.  Wilkinson  ,also  a-ked  ,n  name,  my  age,  and  how  Wag  I  had  served  his  Ilnyal  Iligittte,s.  -  Mr.  Wardle  stated.  11171  t  he  Meant,  on  Tuesday,  to  call  ano another  ther another  witness,  with  rer:pect  to  'flatters  arising  from  what  hail  come  out  in  the  examination  of  the  last  witnes.  Mr.  AOAM  Fxa►uined.  Mr.  Wardle  said,  that  he  w  ished  to  ask  Mr.  Adam  one  or  two,  questions,  as  he  had  stated  that  he  served  the  Duke  of  Fork  g  ratuitously.  Q.  Ilas  the  Honourable  Gentleman  a  Son?—A.  Yes  :  Lieut.  Colonel  of  the  21st  Regiment  of  Foot.  •  Q.  At  what  age  was  he  made  Colonel  ?  Mr.  Adam  said  that  he  would  answer  that  question  ;  hut  the  Pouse,  .he  hoped,  would  allow  him  to  make  some  previous  ob.  ibersations.  General  Sir  Charles  Stuart,  the  friend  of  his  earl  rfe,  asked  him,  whetherany  of  his  five  sons  had  an  inclination  for  the  aruiy.  There  was  one  of  them  14  or  la  years  of  age,  who  he  thought  had  a  strong  tendency  that  way.  The  General  said,  that  by  the  rules  of  the  service  lie  was  permitted  to  appoint  him  to  an  ensigney.  lie  was  accordingly  made  ensign.  He  then  narrated  Lhemeritorituts  conduct  of  his  son  ;  and  said  that  at  the  age  of  twenty-one  he  rose  to  the  situation  of  Lieutenant  Colonel  of  the  Second  Battalion  of  the  21st.  and  afterwards  of  the  First  }3att:►lion,  he  (Mr.  Adam)  having  merely  stated  a  circumstance  lu  his  favour,  which  he  left  entirely  to  the  Duke's  consideration.  Mr.  Adam  proceeded  to  read  the  Letter  nearly  as  follows  :  sir,  your  oharacter  was  once  respected;  that  is  now  over.  Your  shifting  in  the  House  of  Commons,  and  your  interference  in  the  Duke  of  York's  letchery  concerns,  would  have  dubbed  any  tither  wan  a  pimp.  This  subserviency  to  Royalty  HAS  MADE  Youtt  SON  A  COLONEL  AT  TWENTY  YEARS,  and  given  your  eaer  boy  a  ship—(l  wish,  exclaimed  the  lion.  Gentleman,  turning  to  Mr.  Wardle,  you  would  ask  me  a  question  respect respecting  ing respecting  this  son  too  ttt  I  might  have  an  opportunity  of  telling  hy  hat  means..he  got  his  Bravo  !  Go  on!  Trgif  you  ran  say  you  at  for  nu  profit  when  pan  get  your  sons  thus  provided  for.  Decide  as  you  please  that  the  man  who  is  paid  for  his  ser services  vices services  out  of  the  public  purse,  because,  he  is  the  second  man  in  tht  kingdom,  as  you  say,  and  a  Prince,  forsooth,  should  not  shell,  a  good  example.  Let  the  Commons  decide  as  they  will,  the  public  will  judge  fi)r.themselves  ;  and  it  is  not  a  decision  of  the  BEAR  GA  RUENth4  will  convince  burdened  millions  that  black  iswhite.  Rubritk  (it  was  written  in  red  ink)  is  typical  of  my  feel feelengs.  engs. feelengs.  I  blush  for  you,  and  wish  you  would  change  your  prim  1-  ples  to  correspond  with  the  colour  of  your  hair,  and  live  the  late  ter  part  of  bur  time  in  honour.  Though  the  derision  of  th thhouse  house thhouse  wilnitit`go  fat'  with  the  public,  get  all  cues  are  upon  it,  arm'  the  daninitian  or  salvation  of  the  Commons  depends  upon  this  Upon  the  question  peineasked,  Mr.  Adam  said  the  letter  was  'lrithout  SLCOND  CHARGE  AGAINST  THE  COMMANDER  IN  CHIEF.  Mr.  NV4_9;o_4...considered  .t  his  duty,  before  he  submitted  his  charge  against  the  Commairler  in  Chief  ;n  the  promotion  of  Captain  M::liug,  to  positively  state,  that  he  believed  that  Gentle Gentleman  man Gentleman  as  proper  an  °dicer  as  aa  .  i  , STYLE=superscript  of  his  rank  in  the  service.  Every  inquiry  he  had  made  went  to  prove  that  his  conduit  Was  strictly  honourable.  His  chars  was,  that  Capt.  Milling  had,  in  the  short  sp:ice  of  t  sears  mid.  three  months,  received  his  three  commis‘ion4,  and  was  appiii  , STYLE=superscript  ited..fo  a  company  over  the  heads  of  main  %nip:kerns  - STYLE=superscript  WllO  had  Made  application  to  the  Commander  in  (Allot'  for  leave  to  purchase,  aild  who  were  old  Ensigns  and  Lieuterianth  long  before  left  Mr.  Greenwood's  )hire.  FEB.  5.  The  CDANCELLOR  of  the  EXCIEEQUER  conceived  that  the.  charge  ought  to  be  proceeded  on  by  the  Committee.  It  might  probably  become  t  future  question,  and  a  serious  consideration,  to  know  when  and  on  iv  hat  grounds  the  House  was  originally  , STYLE=superscript  called  upon  to  entertain  it.  Mr.  WA  RDLD  wished  to  acquiesce  in  the  general  wishes  of  the  Committee,  either  to  withdraw  or  to  proceed  with  the  charge.  It  was  pornsible  that  in  the  warmth  of  discussion  he  might  have  stated  in  this  charge  something  stronger  than  the  ease  admitted.  But  on  referring  - STYLE=superscript  to  his  own  notes  he  had  no  idea  to  make  any  other  impression  than  that  which  he  himself  felt  on  the  rapid  promotion  of  Captain  Mating  over  deserving  officers,  his  seniors.  in  the  army.  40  Colonel  GottooN  examined  by  Mr.  WARDLE.  Colonel  Go  it  DON  stated,  that  Captain  Mating  was  in  Norem-•  her,  1805,  on  the  recommendation  of  Sir  John  Doyle,  appointed  to  an  ensigncy  in  the  i;7th  regiment.  On  the  24th  of  July',  18(38,  an  application  was  made  by  Major-General  Frazer  to  the  COM;  wander  in  Chief,  requesting  his  Royal  Highness  - STYLE=superscript  that  he  might  he  allowed  to  appoint  Lieutenant  Maling  his  aid-de-camp.  The!  regiment  in  which  that:oilicer  was,  being  under  orders  for  em embarkation,  barkation, embarkation,  and  as  it  was  inconsistent  with  the  .  lionour  of  the  set-  . STYLE=superscript  vice,  he  did  not  quit  his  regiment.  lint  soon  :dirt-,  when  the  African  corps  was  augmented  from  four  to  six  companies,  Lieu Lieutenant  tenant Lieutenant  Mating  was  recommended  for  one  of  the  new  companies.  Colonel  Gordon,  however,  first  had  an  interview  with  Captain  Maling's  brother,  in  which  he  intimated  to  him,  that  if  the  ap-'  pointment  of  hi.  hr  ,ther  to  the  vacant  company  took  place  he  should  go  with  his  regiment  to  Goree.  Captain  Maling  did  join  a  detachment  of  the  African  corps:  who  were  doing  duty  al  , STYLE=superscript  oard  ,  a  prison  ship  ,,  but  was  subsequently  sent  to  Guernsey..  At  this  time  a  second  application  was  made  by  Major-General  Fraser  .  to  have  Captain  Maling  appointed  his  aid-de-camp.  The  an answer  swer answer  of  the  Commander  in  Chief  was,  that  he  approved  of.  Captain  Maling  being  employed  in  that  capacity  so  long,  as  a  detachment  of  his  corps  remained  in  that  island.  •  Q.  is  it  within  your  knowledge,  that  a  number  of  subalterns  who  had  served  longer  than  Capt.  Mating,  were  passed  by,  al although  though although  they  had  signified  their  wish  to  purchase?  A.  Unques Unquestionably  tionably Unquestionably  a  very  considerable  number.  It  is  the  invariable  prac-'  tice  in  the  army,  at  least  it  has  been  the  invariable  practice,:  since  the  period  when  his  Roytil  Highness  was  appointed  Com-  wander  in  Chief,  that  nojunior  officer  should  be  promoted  over'  the  head  of  a  senior  in  the  same  regiment.  This  regulation  did  not  extend  to  the  routine  of  the  whole  army.  It  is  my  duty  to  report,  that  the  officer  recommended  was  a  fit  and  proper  person  and  within  his  Majesty's  regulations.  That  Capt.  Maling  was  so  I  did  conceive,  and  I  know  him  to  lieu  promising  officer  as  any  in  the  army,  and  likely  to  do  honour  to  his  country.  Q.  Was  not  Colonel  Pigott,  of  the  14th  drag  oons,  promoted  over  a  senior  Major  in  that  regiment  ?  A.  hen  l  said  that,  such  an  occurrence  never  took  place,  I  did  mean  that  it  was  .  the  uniform  regulation  of  the  army  so  to  recowmend  O  ffi  cers,  unless  some  special  occasion  for  a  contrary  conduct,  took  place.  I.  believe  that  Colonel  Piggot  belonged  to  the  2lst  regiment,  and  I  am  certain  that  he  was  specifically  recommendedby  the'  Commanding  O  ffi  cer,  Lieut.-Gen.  Tiirleton.  Q.  Can  you  recollect  whether  at  the  period  of  f STYLE=superscript  CapeMalines;  promotionthere  were  any  number  of  recoMmendations  of  Kubal  terns  senior'to  him,  for  leave  to.'  *before  the  Dukeof  York  ?  great  number,  but  this  vacancy  was  not  filledup  by  purchase.  Q.  Without  purchase  ?  A.  It  is  very  rare  _that  these  wee.  The  applications  must  be  numerous  in  such  an  extensive  army:  Colonel  GORDON  then  said  that  there  were  no  regulations  in  the  army,  till  they  were  introduced  by  the  Duke  of  York.  Be Before  fore Before  that,  an  Officer  who  had  money,  might  purchase  up•  the  length  of  a  Lieutenant  Colonel  in  three  weeks  .or  a  month.  witness,  in  consequence  had  a  conference  on  the  subject  with  the.  Gentleman  who  then  executed  the  office  of  •Secretary  at  War,  and  by  him  a  clause  was  introduced,  into  the  Mutiny  Act,  in..  •  flicting  a  penalty  on  any  person  who  should  interfere  lathe  sale.  of  commissions:"
