text
"FEB.  12.  The  sermon,  winch  forms  the  subject  of  my  pre4ent  paper,  was  preached  on  Wednesday,  February  8,  1809,  by  the  Bishop  of  Carlisle  (Dr.  Goodenough),  in  Westminster  Abbey.  Ftbruarg  11,  1809  ONES!  31  us.  FASHIONS  FON,  TILE  PRESENT  MONTH.  HALF  Imrss.  An  Egyptian  head-dress  of  silver  and  pearls,  one  point  fall falling  ing falling  on  the  left  shoulder,  finished  w  ith  a  tassel  ;  the  hair  In  loose  tinglets;  pearl  ear-rings,  bracelets,  and  necklace;  a  train  dres  of  brocaded  sarsenet,  trimmed  v.  - STYLE=superscript  ith  silver  and  vanlyked  ;  lace  round  the  neck  in  form  of  a  tucker,  lent;  •lee%cs  of  Mecklin  or  Brussels  lace;  white  gloves  avid  fan  ;  shoes  the  saute  as  the  dress,  of  brocaded  silk,  with  silver  bows.  DANCING  DRESS.  ......_  _  The  head  ornamented  wilt  bandeaus  of  frosted  gold;  gold  necklace,  ear-rings,  and  armlets;  white  opera  dress  trimmed  all  round  with  gold,  tied  in  front  with  a  gold  cord  and  tassel  ;  hire  satin  shoes,  trimmed  with  gold,  and  gold  button  in  front;  w  bite  gloves,  and  fan  edged  with  gold.  GRNEKAI.  011SERNATIONS.  The  prevailing  colours  for  mantles  and  pelisses  are  gold,  orange,  and  Bishop's  blue;  for  ball  and  full  dress,  satins,  tis tissues,  sues, tissues,  brocaded  silks,  and  velvets,  are  generally  worn,  trimmed  with  gold  and  silver.  Henry  VI  l  1..  hats,  trimmed  or  embroi embroidered  dered embroidered  with  beads,  silver,  or  chenille,  are  becoming  and  fashion fashionable  able fashionable  ;  feathers  of  various  colours  to  correspond  arc  likewi•se  much  worn.  For  morning  dresses  boinbazeens  are  coining  into  fashion  ;  the  prevailing  colour,  dark  purple,  or  Bishop's  blue.  TIIE  TIEEATRES.  DRURY-LANE  THEATRE.  MR.  WRIGHT  ' STYLE=superscript  S  CATO.  On  Monday  night  Mr.  Wright,  from  the  Edinburgh  Theatre,  pupil  of  the  celeorated  Mr.  hough,  made  his  second  appearance  at  Drury-Lane,  in  the  part  of  Cato.  This  tragedy  . STYLE=superscript  possesses  few'  claims  to  admirltion,  as  an  acting  play.  It  is  full  of  declamatory,  not  natural  sentiments,  and  events  highly  improbable  and  in  some  instances  almost  ludicrous.  Among  the  latter,  may  he  pointed  out  the  disguise  of  Sempranins,  who  assumes  the  attire  of  the  umidian  Prince  Juba,  without  assuming  his  tawny  complexion,  anti  yet  though  most  unlike  that  young  warrior,  deceives  his  gnards  and  his  mistress.  The  ri ridicule  dicule ridicule  of  this  character,  was  felt  by  the  whole  house,  for  when  Sc►apro►►ills  falls  by  the  sword  of  Juba,  and  in  the  agonies  of  rage  exclaimed,  grow  distracted,  - STYLE=superscript  a  general  laugh  at  tended  with  hisses  burst  from  every  part.  II  ad  t  shade  of  the  mighty  Dennis,  who  so  justly  alai  severely  criticised  this  tragnaly  oa  its  first  appearance,  been  hovering  round  the  stage  at  that  moment,  ho%c  it  would  have  exulted.  The  judg•  inont  i  n.'  Cie  M  at  r:  L  ers,  has  however.  by  al!  tyv  *nig  a  chatiee  of  scenery  obviated  one  of  his  chid'  objection  , STYLE=superscript  ,  vend  itiereased  the  probabilit  v  o!  the  piece.  Ilad  Jir.  Wright  appeared  on  the  French  stage,  he  would  have  .;  icon  rapturous  admiration,  for  he  cao  rant  and  gesticulate  wita  ;  DS  much  unnatural  bombast  voice  mei  action,  as  any  perforonn•  on  the  Parisian  theatres.  Mr.  V  t  ii,Jit•s  gruff  thunders  and  awl;.ward  and  too  multiplied  gestures,  inspired  us  lather  with  I  (!!,gust  than  ;I  N  A-obit:Jun.  count.alance  posse-,es  ;  its  exprt!,,ion  is  rather  ludieroas,  ea  all  Cie  time  his  performaoce  ;asted,  we  could  not  help  recollene  eti  t!ta  e  I  t  (ear  of  oar  best  comic  actors,  Mr.  l.istop,  t  aa.le  his  first  appeara  nce STYLE=superscript  in STYLE=superscript  ;  tragedy,  wai  at  lag  ‘k  ctiottl;it  to  listen  ti)  the  voice  of  reason  and  quit  a  path  which  would  never  have  le  :I  hint  to  fame,  for  another,  threngli  v  hid'  he  has  attained  a  highly  de.A!rved  the  h  e  ight  of  renown.  Ac  I  hou STYLE=superscript  g  h STYLE=superscript  desirous STYLE=superscript  to  show  t  hat  length  of  hi;  arms  ecinat  led  that  of  his  hotly.  Mr.  Wright  inces incessantly'  santly' incessantly'  spread  them  open  to  tht.ir  fall  extent,  in  a  straight  line,  bending  his  chr  , STYLE=superscript  t  a  little  forward.  if..  then  leaked  e  xactly,  as  if  he  was  about  attempting  to  tiv  without  wings.  At  other  times,  he  them  °vet•  or  fixed  them  both  on  his  hips,  in  a  wanner  equally  ludierous  and  unnatural.  la  order  to  add  elegaece  to  hi;  nepartnteut,  he  stiffened  his  ha  e  ve  joints,  so  'that  his  legs  and  thiehs  , STYLE=superscript  seemed  all  of  at  piece,  then  Wrappk  i  .;  his  red  reantle  !wind  hi,  hon.,v,  hi'  stratted  la  tile  stage.  We  have  been  taes  severe  on  what  we  conceive  to  be  .V.e•  i  ;;  hes  chief  :Jecattiv  Ow)  are  e:yettion  can"
