text
"IMPORTANT  REPORT  AND  RESOLVES.  BOSTON,  Nev.  18.—On  Monday  last,  on  the  motion  of  Colonel  Thatcher,  of  Warren,  a  Committee  of  the  House  of  Representatives  of  the  Legislature  of  this  State,  was  ap appbinted,  pbinted, appbinted,  to  consider  the  expediency  of  adopting  measures  with  a  view  to  procure  the  repeal  of  the  Embargo  Laws.  On  Tuesday  the  Committee  made  the  Report,  which  is  subjoined.  A  very  aniinated  and  interesting  debate  ensued,  in  which  the  Report  was  supported  by  Messrs.  Thatcher,  Sargent,  ~re,  Thoradike,  Wheaton,  and  Ives,  and  opposed  :1y  Messrs.  Ripley,  Crowninshield,  Martin,  Moody,  and  Bangs.  The  question  of  acceptance  was  taken  by  yeas  and  nays,  and  decided  in  the  affirmative,  by  a  majority  of  80.  Resolved,  Th.lt  the  Senators  of  this  Commopw•ealth  in  Con Congre4s  gre4s Congre4s  be  instructed,  mid  the  Represent:ifives  thereof  requested  to'  , STYLE=superscript  use  their  almost  stretiuous  exertion'  to  procure  an  immediate  re-  - STYLE=superscript  peal  of  the  v;  riots  laws  imposing  an  Embargo  on  the  Ships  and  Vesiselc  of  the  United  States,  as  the  0►.1%  equal  and  effectual  means  of  allfordine  permanent  relief  to  the  citizens  of  this  Common.  wealth  front  the  aggravated  esils  which  the  .  )  now  experience.  Resolved,  'lna!  although  the  Legi  , STYLE=superscript  lature  would  cheerfully  sitprwt  the  Cameral  Government  in  the  prabccution  of  a  just  and  necessary  war,  yet  the  cannot  perceive  the  necessity  intimated'  its  the  Message  of  the  President  of  Cat4.;ress,  'of  continulig  embargo,  or  resorting  to  Mar;  that  it  it  not  the  policy  of  the  United  States  to  engage  id  a  controversy  u  ith  any  nation,  upoo  twines  of  diplomatic  usage,  or  equivocal  provided  substan substantial  tial substantial  reparation  for  injuries  can  be  obtained;  and  that  the  *iota  of  the  Proclamation,  interdicting  the  British  snips  of  war  from  our  waters,  ought  not,  in  the  opinion  of  this  Legislature.  to  WI  dt  . STYLE=superscript  diftl  an  iikllialassible  pr.:llluhtury,  IN  WO  ;  Amid  obstruct:  P4_TB00025 P4_TB00026 -"
