text
"THE  COURT.  At  his  Majesty's  Leveo  on  Wednesday,  the  following  had  the  honour  of  being  presented'  to  his  Majesty,  upon  their  appointments,  proinotions,  Lord  Amherst,  upon  his  being  appointed  his  Majesty's  Envoy  'Extraordinary  and  Minister  Plenipotentiary  to  the  Court  of  his  Sicilian  histjesty.  .The  Rev.  'Mr.  Honcho&amp;  Grey,  upon  hi*  being  appointed  *  Prebend  of.  Durham.  Major-Gen.  Dyott,  upon  his  going  to  join  the  army  in  %pais.  The  Rev.  Mr.  Lee,  Chaplain  in  Ordinary  to  his  Royal  tress  the  Prince  of  Wales,  upon  his  return  from  Spain.  General  Campbell,  upon  his  return  from  Spain.  M  H.  Bentinok  his  being  appointed  Governor  of  De-  P11_TB00016 ician,  who,  ,  Mr.  H.  Dentine*.  upon  his  being  appointed  Governor  of  De-  i  the  most  merara'and  Es  etittilm•  neurmount-  sari  .  Mr.  Charles  Bentinek,  upon  his  being  apisifiled  Governor  of  in  order  to  Lieutenant  Colonel  Bradyll,  of  the  Caugdalligla  regiment  of  impropriety  guards,  upon  his  promotion.  th  a  shilling  4  •  Lieuteuan  t  Colonel  Lloyd  of  the  84th  regiment,  upon  his  pro-  '  lit  0  JW  or  here.  motion  and  return  fpua  being  Commander  at  Goree.  THE  NATIO  Ills  Majesty  held  a  Privy  Council,  at  which  Messrs.  D.  and  C.  Bentinck,  were  introduced,  and  sworn  in  GoVern GoVernors  ors GoVernors  as  above.  Ili  , STYLE=superscript  Majesty  gave  private  audiences  to  the  Duke  of  Port Portland,  land, Portland,  the  Lord  Chancellor,  and  the  other  Cabinet  Minis Ministers  ters Ministers  present.  About  six  o'clock  his  Majesty  set  off  on  his  return  to  Windsor.  THE  EPIPHANY.  .  —i.  •.  .  •,..,,..  Friday  being  the  anniversary  of  the  Manifestation  of  our  Saviour  to  the  Gentiles,  commonly  called  Ihe  same  was  observed  at  the  Chapel  Royal,  in  St.James's  Palace.  Lord  John  Thynne,  his  Majesty's  Vice  Chamberlain,  attended  instate,  in  the  Royal  Closet,  to  represent  his  Nlajesty,  at  Heat  of  the  Church  of  England,  with  the  same  attendants  of  state,  the  Yemen  of  the  Guards,  as  if  his  Majesty  was  present.  After  the  Gospel,  appointed  for  the  day,  which  is  taken  from  the  2d  chap.  of  St.  Mathew,  Ist  verse,  had  been  read,  a  solemn  symphony  began  on  the  organ,  and  continued  playing  during  the  time  Lord  John  Thyne  and  the  attendants  were  leaving  the  oyal  closet  ,  and  proceeding  through  the  aisle  of  the  chapel  to  i  '  .  alter  where  his  Lordship  knelt  on  a  crimson  velvet  cushion.  crimson  mantle  was  placed  on  the  front  of  the  altar,  w  here  the  Rev.  Mr.  Holmes,  the  Sub-Dean,  was  in  attendance,  in  the  room  of  the  Bishop  of  London,  who  is  indisposed.  The  atten attendants  dants attendants  then  took  from  an  oval  gold  box  three  crimson  bags,  with  gold  ornaments,  containing  gold,  frank  incence  and  myrrh,  gave  them  to  Lord.Jiihn  Thynne,  who  presented  them  to  the  Sub-  Dean,  who  received  them  in  a  0-old  dish.  The  procession  then  re-willed  to  the  Royal  Closet.  After  the  service  an  appropriate  Arise  !  shine  0  Zion  !  for  thy  light  i  4  come.”—com come.”—composed  posed come.”—composed  by  the  late  Dr.  Dupuis,  was  very  correctly  sung  by  biessrs.  Goss,  Hawes,  Vaughan,  and  Salmon.  }•  ;  FASHIONS  FOR,  LADIES-AND  GENMEMEN  FOR  JANUARY,  1809.  WILKING  DRESS.  A  Polish  bonnet  and  mantle  of  gold  coloured  velvet,  wits  an  invisible  hood  trimmed  with  ermine  ;  an  antique  collar  fastened  with.  a  gold  ornament  in  front,  in  form  of  a  shell.  Morning.  dres  white  muslin  Brussels  spot,.with  a  worked  stomacher,  and  trim.oed  down  the  front  and  at  the  bottom;  worked  long  hanging,.  skeeve.,  twisted  and  fastened  at  the  wristband  with  a  small  gold.  oo;atneut,  of  the  same  form  as  that  which  fastens  the  mantle  and  ciiicture  of  the  dress;  sandals  of  gold-coloured  cloth,  laced  with  brown  cords  and  tassels;  York  tan  gloves.  EVENING  PULL  DRESS.  A  white  satin  Spanish  hat  with  a  diamond  loop,  and  Spanish  plume;  diamond  ear-rings  and  necklace;  the  hair  fall,  in  ring ringlets;  lets; ringlets;  a  w:.ite  satin  dress,  full  trimmed  with  blue  velvet,  with  a  lace  medicis  round  the  hack  and  shoulders;  an  antique  stomacher  ornamented  with  diamonds  mounted  in  gold;  white  satin  shoes  with  gold  bows,  white  gloves  and  fan.  P12_TB00009 ,  1  1  1  .  ,  •  1 STYLE=superscript  '  k,  ,1  I  1  )  to  e  .  A  /  !1  ,  st  I  OA  \  T  1  1 STYLE=superscript  %  v.  1  .  ,  .4  V  6  I  4  /lc  V  66.  I  ,  •  $  i  i  1  fl  .  i  I STYLE=superscript  1  1 STYLE=superscript  11,  1  ~.  ,  1  o  4  iil  ,  i STYLE=superscript  t  . STYLE=superscript  n  yy  I  ,  11  '  I  '  1  1 STYLE=superscript  :  1 STYLE=superscript  '  4 STYLE=superscript  e STYLE=superscript  i  i  ll STYLE=superscript  I  .  I  .  ,  1  0 STYLE=superscript  ,"
