text
"T  ESD  FEB.  7.  0  R  1:11  0  IY  .  Mr.  WHARTON.'  in  the  Chair  Ptigh  w;:s  called  to  the  Ea  ••  ;tad  examine/.  Q,  (By  the  ATTO  EY-GENERAL).—  What  business  do  you  carry  on  ?—A.  That  of  an  auctioneer.—Q.  Did  Mrs.  Clarke  or order  der order  any  furniture  from  you  ?  A.  She  called  at  my  house  about  some  looking-glasses  az4  a  hall-lamp,  and  I  waited  on.  her  in  consequence.  She  represented  herself  as  unmarried  and  talked  of  her  late  husband,  and  her  three  children  being  at  school.—Q.  Did  she  give  you  any  order  ?  A.  Yes  for  a  hall  lamp  and  some  glasses,  amounting  in  the  whole  to  about  271.  Q.  Were  you  paid  for  your  goods  by  Mrs.  Clarke  ?  A.  No  ;  I  was  obliged  to  bring  my  action  at  law  to  recover  the  amount  :  but  I  was  nonsoited.  —Q.  Was  It  om  the  ground  of  her  being  a  married  woman  ?  A.  I  think  it  was.  Mr.  Stowers  examined  by  the  ATroasEv-firNritAL.—Q.  Did  you  know  Mrs.  Clarke  after  her  marriage  with  Mr.  Clarke?  A.  I  did.—Q.,  What  business  did  Mr.  Clarke  carry  on  ?  A.  A  stone-mason.—Q.  Dal  he  carry  on  the  bwinegri  of  a  stone stonemason  mason stonemason  vi  hile  she  lived  with  him  ?  A.  lie  cci  taint)  did  ;  not  1•••;';  than  three  or  four  years.—Q.  Had  they  any  children  ?  A.  Not  less  than  three.—Q.  Were  these  children  born  while  he  was  carrying  on  the  business  of  a  stone-mason  ?  A.  Sonic  of  them  were.  NIT.  Pi..•ree  examined  by  Mr.  WARDLr.—Q.  Did  you  live  with  Mrs.  Clarke  at  Gloucester-Oace,  as  her  butler,  whilst  tit_e•  was  under  the  protection  of  his  Royal  Highness  the  Duke  of  York  ?  A.  I  did.—Q.  Do  you  recollect,  that  in  the  year  1805„  Royal  Ilighnes  the  Duke  of  York  went  to  Weymouth,  and  Mrs.  Clarke  to  Worthing?  A.  I  do.—Q.  Do  you  recollect  one  Lodowick,  a  servant,  who  used  to  attend  the  Duke  of  York  gt  Gloucester-place?  A.  I  (lo.—Q.  Do  you  recollect  any  servant  having  been  ordered  by  the  Duke  of  York  to  take  out  a  Bank.  note  to  be  exchanged  ?  4.  I  recollect  the  house-keeper,  Mrs.  Taylor,  who  was  a  favourite,  coining  down,  and  giving  a  note  to  Lodowick  to  get  changed,  when  Lodowick  went  out,  and  on  his  return  gave  the  change  to  Mrs.  Taylor,  the  favourite.—Q,  Do  Yon  recollect  that  any  other  servant  had  been  ordered  by  the  Duke  of  York  to  get  the  note  changed  ?  A.../sio.—Do  you  re recollect  collect recollect  Lodowick  having  got  the  not  exchanged  ?  A.  I  do.—  Q.  (By  Mr.  lit:..  ,n,)  Do  you  recollect  whether  the  Duke  nas  in  Nils.  Clarke's  house  at  the  time  the  note  was  given  to  Lodowick  to  get  changed  A.  He  was  up  stairs.  Captain  Ituxley  Sandell  examined  by  Mr.  WARDLE.—Q.  Do  you  know  Mrs.  Clarke  ?  A.  I  do.—Q.  Did  you.  or  Colonel  French  ever  apply  to  Mrs.  Clarke  to  use  her  interest  with  the  Commander  in  Chief  in  order  to  have  his  levy  expedited  ?  Who  gave  you  the  information  respecting  the  person  who  had  the  i  n  terest  to  promote  your  application  ?  Who  took  you  first  to  Mrs.  Clarke?  A.  Mr.  Cockayne,  my  attorney,  told  me,  as  I  was  a  military  man,  that,  if  I  had  any  thing  to  do  at  the  War  Office,  or  in  the  Office  of  the  Commander  in  Chief,  he  would  recommend  me  to  a  person  who  had  interest  to  serve  me..  lie  introdtseed  me  to  her  agent,  Mr.  Corri,  a  musie-master.—Q.  When  did  you  first  speak  to  Mrs  Clarke  upon  the  subject  of  the  Levy?  A.  I  really  do  not  know.  The  business  had  been  settled.  between  Colonel  French  and  Mrs.  Clarke.  —Q.  IN  hat.  means  dill~  you  take  to  get  the  point  carried,  so  as  to  procure  the  letters  of  service  through  Mrs.  Clarke?  A.  I  understood  from  Colton.,  French  that  he  had  engaged  to  give  Mrs..  Clarke  a  cer certain  tain certain  sum  of  monev.—Q.  What  !sassed  between  you  and  Colonel  French  upon  this  subject  ?  A.  Ile  told  me  when  I  saw  him,  that thathe  he thathe  had  settled  every  thing  «ith  Mrs.  Clarke.  That  he  was  to  give  her  S(X)  guineas.  —Q.  Are  you  of  your  own  knowledge  aware  of  any  other  bargain  w  ilk  Mrs.  Clarke,  but  with  respect  to  the  300  guineas  ?  A.  1  was  not,  before  Colonel  French  went  to  Previous  to  his  departure,  he  desired  me,  if  Mrs.  Clarke  Arnold  want  money,  to  advance  it  to  her.—Q.  To  what  amount  ?  A.  As  far  as  ti;  e,  six,.  or  seven  hundred  pounds.—Q.  Do  you  recollect  any  applicarion  having  been  made  to  Mrs.  Clarke  for  an  alteration  of  the  original  letters  otiscrvice?  A.  There  were  various  alteratiow.  in  the  original  letters.  The  re recruiting  cruiting recruiting  bounty  had  been  raised  to  nineteen  guineas.  We  re recruited  cruited recruited  at  fiat  at  thirteen  guineas  hount  v  ,  and  as  we  t  bought  Our Ourselves  selves Ourselves  entitlezi  to  the  addition,  we  applied  . STYLE=superscript  to  MN.  Clarke,  that  we  might  :et  thee:dm  - STYLE=superscript  gement,  as  e  could  get  no  men  at  thirteen  guineas,  vs  hii.l  the  Ho:•  was  r.-eruited  at  nineteen  guineas.—  Q.  To  whom  did  you  apply  ?  A.  To  the  Commander  iql  Chief'  of  course.--Q.  Did  y  nit  not  apply  to  Mrs.  Clarke  A.  There  «a,  no  occasion  for  it.—Q.  Did  you  ever  apply  to  Clar;;e.  upon  ;my  ot!wr  occasion  I  A.  Relative  ,tu  tttr  Levy.--Q.  Did  you  ever,  at  any  time,  wait  on  the  Coni Conim.tiokr  m.tiokr Conim.tiokr  in  with  a  message  Iron  Airs.  Clarke  I  A.  I  once  oains:l  en  the  Coottoooder  %%iuh  , STYLE=superscript  Colonel  French,  to  for  having  granted  the  levy.—Q.  What  sumor  sums  were  given  to  ..  1 STYLE=superscript  31.  Clarke  by  you,  or  to  your  knotv  ledge  by  any  P4_TB00016 .  P4_TB00017 THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER,  P4_TB00018 FEW  12."
