text
"Great  Britain  and  (retard,  and  the  Supreme  and  Central  Junti  of  Spain  and  the  Indies,  acting  iu  the  name  and  on  the  behalf  of  his  Cathblic  Majesty  Ferdinand  .V  li.  hasp  constituted  and  apt  pointed--that  is  to  say,  his  Majesty  the  King  of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  the  Right  Honotitable  George  Canning,  one  of  his  Majesty's  Most  llonourable  Privy  Council,  and  his  Principal.  Secretary  of  State  for  Foreign  Affairs;  and  the  Supreme  and  Central  J  unta  of  Government  of  Spain  and  the  Indies,  acting  in  the  name  and  on  the  behalf  of  his  Catholit  Majesty  Ferdinand  VII:  Don  3uart  Itniz  de  Apodata;  Coma  minder  of  Vallaga  and  Algarga  in  the  Military  Order  of  Cala Calatrava;  trava; Calatrava;  Rear.  Admiral  of  the  rto,dl  Nat  y,  barbed  by  the  Supreme  and  Central  Junta  of  Government  of  Spain  and  the  Indies,  a,  Envoy  Extraordinary  and  Minister  Plenepotentiary  of  his  Ca  -  Majesty  )Ferdinand  S  11.  to  his  Britimie  Majesty—their  Plenipotentiariex,  to  conclude  and  sign  a  Treaty  of  Peace,  Friendship,  and  alliance  ho  having  communicated  their  respective  full  powers,  agreed  to  and  concluded  the  follow following  ing following  Articles  :  A  ItT  IC  LE  I:  There  shall  he  betsteen  his  Majesty  the  King  of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland,  and  his  Catholic  Majesty  Ferdinand  VII.  King  of  Spain  and  of  the  Indies  thereunto  appertaining,  and  between  all  their  kingdoms,  States,  Dominions,  and  Subjects,  a  Christian,  stable,  an  invio inviolable  lable inviolable  Peace  ;  and  a  perpetual  and  sincere  amity,  and  a  strict  alliance  during  the  war  against  France;  together  with  an  entire  and  la  , STYLE=superscript  ting  oblivion  of  all  acts  of  hostility  done  on  either  side,  in  the  course  of  the  late  W:l5,  in  w  Mat  they  have  been  engaged  against  each  other;  11.  To  ob‘;iate  all  complaints  and  disputes  Which  might  are  on  the  subject  of  prizes,  captured  posterior  to  the  declara declaration  tion declaration  published  by  his  Britannic  Majesty  nn  the  4th  of  J  nly  last  year,  it  has  been  mutually  agreed,  that  the  vesselit  and  property  taken  posterior  lo  the  date  of  the  said  declaration,  in  any  seas  or  ports  of  the  world,  without  any  exception,  and  a  Ithout  any  regard  either  to  time  or  place,  shall  be  restored  by  both  oartles.—.And  l  as  the  accidental  occupation  of  any  of  the  ports  of  the  Peninsula  hy.the  common  enctny,  might  occasion  disputes  respecting  any  %essels,  which,  in  ignorance  of  such  occupation,  might  direct  their  course  to  those  ports  from  any  other  harbour,  either  of  the  Peninsula  or  the  colonies  ;  and  as  cases  may  occur  in  which  the  Spanish  inhabitants  of  the  said  ports  or  provinces,  so  occupied  by  the  eneiny,  may,  with  their  property,  endeavour  to  escape  front  his  grasp;  the  high  contracting  have  agreed  that  Spanish  vessels,  not  aware  of  the  enemy  'sllC.  d  of  any  harbour  which  they  are  desirous  to  enter,  or  ~u STYLE=superscript  ch  at.  mater  ticeeed  in  making  their  escape  from  any  harbotit  !it  occupied,  shall  not  be  captured,  nor  themselves  nor  their  Cargo  be  coati coatidered  dered coatidered  as  a  good  prize;  but,  on  the  contrary,  that  they  Shall  meet  with  every  help  and  assistance  from  the  naval  power  of  bit  Britannic  Majesty.  HI.  His  Britannic  Majesty  engages  to  teitttlhue  10  assist,  to  the  utmost  of  his  povret-,  the  Spanish  natlan;  in  their  streggla  against  the  tyranny  and  usurpation.  of  France,  and  promises  not  to  acknowledge  any  other  King  of  Spain  and  the  ItidicS  there.*  unto  appertaining,  than  his  Catholic  Majeitty  ketdinand  V  114;  his  heirs,  or  such  lawful  successor  as  the  Spanish  batten  shall  acknowledge;  and  the  Spanish  Government,  in  the  nnOne  and  d  the  behalf  of  his  Catholic  Majesty  Ferdint.  4 STYLE=superscript  l  vll.  engaget  never,  in  any  case;  to  cede  td  Frahm  any  part  of  the  territtis  ries  nr  possessions  of  the  Siiahlsh  Albnarchy,  In  any  vat{  of  thi  world.  IV.  The  high  contracting  patties  agtee  to  Make  rtittittion  cause  against  Fiance  ;  and  not  tb  make  pence  Wlth  ttfat  power  except  by  common  coirSent.  V.  The  present  treaty  ::h  nll  he  ratified  lty  both  patties;  the  exchange  of  the  ratifications  shall  he  made  in  the  space  or  two  n►onths,  (or  sooner  if  it  can  he  done)  In  Londom  In  witness  whereof,  we,  tindermetaidhed  Plenipotetttlatiesi  have  signed,  in  virtue  of  our  respec►ive  full  powers,  the  presebt  Treaty  of  Peace,  Friendship,  and  Alliance,  and  hate  sealed  it  With  the  seals  cif  our  arms.  Done  at  London  this  14th  day  of  lamaty,  1130  1 STYLE=superscript  17  i  (LSO  C  - STYLE=superscript  IibRGE  eiN'AINC  ART.  I.  Sepnrate.  The  Spanish  Government  etignges  to  take  the  most  effectual  measures  for  the  preventing  of  the  SpanisH  squadron;  in  all  the  ports  of  Spain,  as  well  as  of  the  French  squadron,  taken  in  the  month  of  June,  and  now  in  the  !tattoo!  of  Cailiz,  from  falling  into  the  power  of  Fiance:  For  which  purpa,c  his  liritailaic  Majesty  enzages  to  co-operate  by  MI  aineaLoll  in  power.  In  u  'torsi  whereof,  we,  the  undersigned  Plenfpcftentraries4  have  signed:  in  %smut:  of  our  respective  tuts  powets;  (lie  viva"
