text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.'  i  ;tat  grounds  was  it  so  refused  ?  Why,  he  states,  that  although  a  bood  had  been  promised,  yet  no  bond  had  heen  given!  There  is  the  honour  of  a  Prince'  for  you  !!!  I  think  the  evidence  ad adduced  duced adduced  may  she  clearly  that  the  Honour  of  a  Prince  is  not  at  all  to  be  relied  upon.  His  Royal  Highness's  desire  to  procure  money  by  any  means,  or  from  any  quarter,  was  also  emi eminently  nently eminently  conspicuous.  The  Gentlemen  opposite  would  make  the  House  believe  Paradise  was  regained,  that  the  golden  age  of  truth  was  revived,  that  all  were  actuated  by  the  most  pure  amid  disinterested  13ut  there  was  something  that  these  Gentlemen  had  quire  overlooked.  With  them  corruption  and  money  seem  to  have  no  distinction.  It  is  true,  that  when  any  of  the  Members  of  that  House  had  the  honour  of  dining  *Hit  the  Speaker,  they  did  not  find  mohey  under  their  plates.  —  They  eirs,a,h:  and  bribe  now  in  another  way  —they  give  some  athee,  or  the  like.  W  nea  those  Gents:  then  are  talking  about  corruption,  and  that  the  Duke  is  no  way  guitty,  they  mean  that  money  was  not  actually  put  into  his  hands.  But  the  way  they  were  to  know  whether  there  was  - STYLE=superscript  corruption  or  not,  was  for  them  to  look  at  the  motive—at  the  manner  in  which  the  influence  was  exercised.  He  would  nest  turn  the  attention  or  the  Ilouse  to  the  circumstance  of  his  Royal  Highness's  eadeavouring  to  ne negociate  gociate negociate  a  loan  with  a  man  who  had  lately  been  a  bankrupt,  through  the  medium  of  Mrs.  Clarke's  Soliciu  , STYLE=superscript  r  ;  and  for  which  bankrupt  he  applied  to  Mr.  Pitt  for  a  place.  lie,  applying  for  a  loan,  who  was  so  much  better  provided  for  than  either  of  his  Roval  Brothers?  He,  for  whom  the  country  had  done  so  much  !  Ile,  whom  his  Majesty  had  not  forgotten  !  But  the  circumstance  of  the  Duke's  applytt)e  to  raise  money  through  the  medium  Of  Mrs.  Clarke's  Solicitor.  shews  his  dhsire  ii'  mahiog  stall  appli applications  cations applications  by  her  influence.  The  striking  feature  throughout  the  whole  business  was  the  grasping  at  air  thing  for  momentary  as assistance.  sistance. assistance.  He  could  not  this  inc  what  inei'ziblc  something  it  could  be  that  directed  the  Learned  Sieialeman  to  bring  forward  mere  nothings  to  rebut  such  an  ocean  of  evidence,  to  bring  forward  Trifles,  light  as  air,  Are  to  the  jealous  confirmations  St  rong  As  proofs  of  holy  Let  the  Learned  Gentleman  look—there  has  not  been  any  business  so  important  to  the  country—uothiog  that  has  so  epsaged  its  attention,  since  the  Exclusion  Bill  engaged  that  house's  de deliberations;  liberations; deliberations;  and  he  most  sincerely  hoped  that  the'  remembrance  of  those  who  did  their  duty  on  that  occasico,  would  induce  them  not  to  do  injustice  in  this.  However  high  the  rank  of  the  ac accused  cused accused  14,  it  is  bat  a  small  consideration  on  illy  Mind,  for  the  case  is  the  justice  of  Eng:and.—  (Hear  !  )  The  Commander  in  Chief  has  offered  the  honour  of  a  Prince  :  hut  I  be  leave  to  State,  that  the  honour  of  the  King,  the  honour  of  the  Crown,  the  fountain  of  justice,  is  at  stake,  and  these  are  not  to  he  turned  aside  Dy  that  which  is  now  offered  to  your  notice.  Unfortu Unfortunately,  nately, Unfortunately,  upon  this  hubjeci  of  honour,  there  is  a  contrast.  I  would  wish  you  to  put  in  opposition  to  it  the  hollour  of  that  witness,  who  has  been  painted  in  such  infamous  colours  at  your  bar,  every  etiort  to  discredit  whom  has  always  redouaded  to  the  coni  • STYLE=superscript  usina  of  those  who  brought  it  forward.  Mr.  Few,  a  wit witness,  ness, witness,  tins  proved  to  you,  that  having  sued  Mrs.  Clarke  for  a  deb;.  w  bidi  site  bucceeded  in  resisting.  this  woman,  who  has  keen  st.  mud  so  is  - STYLE=superscript  .estaeful,  nevertheless,  thought  proper  most  hothiur hothiurabl...to  abl...to hothiurabl...to  pay  him.  In  short  his  Royal  Highness's  honour  rises  out  d.seoss.oo  like  Baoquo'sghost,  With  twenty  mortal  gashes  on  his  head,  To  posh  us  * STYLE=superscript  front  our  It  is  hnpovsible,  Sir,  that,  under  all  the  circumstances  of  this  Case,  the  Duke  .if  York  ian  retain  the  sit  nation  he  now  holds  at  the  head  of  the  arm  , STYLE=superscript  —(  ileor  !  hear  !  )  for  I  have  nothiug  to:do  is  what  may  be  the  cohsequence  of  this  q:iestiun  being  so  de decidi.d.  cidi.d. decidi.d.  a  t.  is  only  to  be  deteriniaed  by  the  evidence  before  yon.  h.o.  come  :u  surh  a  vote,  let  the  cotiseqaence  he  what  it  may,  with  no  oi  her  considetation  but  that  of  ,justice.  The  Peo People  ple People  of  England  had  at  vb  •.,s  been  rerairked  it,  history  for  their  extr...me  to,  of  .11,,tire.  They  looked  for  that,  they  desired  that.  If  the  Housh  w  ishc.l  c  impletely  to  convince  the  people  of  their  deterinioat  too  to  do  just  ce,  he  knew  one  way  of  doing  so;  and  if  all  the  who  sat  on  the  Treasury  Bench,  all  who  have  any  emolualeots  under  the  Crown,  were  to  walk  out  of  the  House  at  the  tio:e  whet,  the  livision  took  place,  and  leave  it  to  the  vet-.  w  a  teve:  that  decisisn  might  be,  he  was  convinced  the  people  would  bn  -roi•fiedi  The  lion.  Baronet  concluded  an  anima:en  speech,  th.•ble  ;LA  he  appeared  to  he,  (  for  he  went  into  the  :warted  bs  crutches)  of  ino  hours  length,  by  ex  pr.sn  In  his  opprohation  of  the  origioal  Motion.  The  M  Asl  en.  of  the  Ro  this  eninmenced,  by  prat  iroz  the  niinciutable  Baronet's  ingenious  speech,  though  he  could  net  MAACII  agree  with  him  in  some  of  his  conclusions.  Here  seemed  to  him  to  be  two  questions  for  their  COllA;demtion.  Whether  dr.).  should  come  to  any  definite  opinion  as  to  t  he  personal  guilt  of  the  Duke;  and  if  they  did,  what  that  opinion  should  be,  and  how  worded.  He  then  observed  upon  a  variety  of  modes  Or  forms  by  which  they  might  deride.  The  House  had  not  called  for  the  test  of  evidence  which  all  ages  had  adopted—the  test  of  oath.  in  examinations,  there  was  generally  something  left  to  surmise;  hut  Mrs.  Clarke's  evidence  came  home  to  the  Duke;  there  was  nothing  to  suggest.  She  told  the  House  that  his  Royal  Highness  authorised  anti  approved  of  all  she  had  done  ;  that  he  encouraged  her;  and  that  in  fact  he  made  her  the  mere  instrument  of  his  extortions.  Anti  he  could  not  but  express  his  surprise  to  find  the  Addresl  so  worded,  as  not  to  rely  on  the  evidence  of  Mrs.  It  is  There  was  no  necessity  for  them  to  know  that  her  evidence  was  untrue;  it  was  if  they  had  reasonable  doubts.  They  ought  not  have  a  witness  tinder  the  influence  of  malice;  and  as  to  Mr  , STYLE=superscript  .  yarke's  evidence,  on  the  w  hole,  many  gentlemen  were  of  opi.•  mon  that  it  ought  to  be  set  aside;  but  he  thought  the:  re  were  gome  parts  that  seemed  to  have  some  truth.  It  had  been  proved  toat  she  had  had  some  influence  over  the  mind  of  the  Duke.  As  to  Mi:.s  Taylor's  evidence,  it  went  to  confirm  the  corruption  of  the  Duke.  There  certain!  v  was  nothing  - STYLE=superscript  to  impeach  her  CA  idence,  but  it  had  struck  him  as  rather  extraordinary,  that  her  memory  siiould  be  so  correct  as  to  wl:at  had  passed  four  or  live  years  since,  and  that  it  should  -o  fail  her  as  to  what  had  occurred  a  few  days  before  her  examination.  It  was  in  proof  that  three  or  four  cbtained  from  the  Duke  of  York  the  object  of  o.  (etch  they  were  in  search.  Ilut  v.  as  that  ten  argonient  that  she  had  hat  undoubted  influence  nn  his  110  al  Ilightleo-  1  The  numbers  of  instances  of  that  effort  being  . STYLE=superscript  so  few,  the  presumption  certainly  was  weak,  that  she  had  any  influence  over  the  Duke  at  ;111.  The  Honourable  aml  Learned  Gentleman  then  pro proceeded  ceeded proceeded  to  point  out  in  what  respect  the  evidence  of  Mrs.  Clarke  was  such  that  it  did  not  deserve  credence..  'I  he  first  observation  AV  Well  occurred  to  him  on  her  evidence  was,  OW  she  did  not  commence  this  traffic  until  her  distress  began.  In  this  assertion  she  was  directly  contradicted  by  the  ease  of  Colonel  French's  levy,  the  negotiation  of  which  it  appeared  on  the  minutes,  had  conuoenced  so  early  as  the  month  of  March  ISO  4,  being  six  months  antecedent  to  the  period  Mrs.  Clarke  stated  herself  to  have  comiaenced  this  kind  of  traffic.  With  regard  to  the  cir circumstance  cumstance circumstance  of  her  having  stated  that  the  Duke  was  in  great  dis distress,  tress, distress,  and  that  it  was  a  matter  of  great  difficulty  that  she  obtain obtained  ed obtained  from  him  lOW.  he  was  at  a  loss  to  reconcile  such  statement  with  truth.  It  was  clear  that  Mrs.  Clarke  had  met  with  absolute  delays  and  obstructions.  Even  in  the  earqe  where  she  calculated  with  most  certainty  on  success,  namely  that  of  Alajor  Ton  ..'s.  how  long  was  she  kept  out  of  the  desired  re reward  ward reward  for  her  suppioed  influence?  It  was  not  denied  that  the  1)0,e  allowed  Mrs.  Clarke  to  speak  and  write  to  him  on  the  suOject  of  army  promotions.  He  certainly  did  to  a  degree  con condescend  descend condescend  to  hold  with  her  communichtions  of  that  sort,  but  he  contended  that  his  Royal  Ilighness  was  not.  convicted,  by  any  evidence  before  the  Howe,  of  having  permitted  that  degree  of  interference  in  many  promotions  which  constituted  the  alleged  ground  of  blame  agains  t  him.  Sir  S.  'MCI.  H.051114.1'  felt  it  a  duty,  painful  as  it  was,  to  consider  this  ease  in  a  very  different  point  of  view  front  eery  other  Member  vs  ho  was  of  that  profession  to  w  hick  he  had  the  honour  to  belong.  In  the  first  place  it  was  impossihle  for  him  to  assent  to  the  proposition  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  That  there  was  no  ground  to  charge  his  It  oyal  llighness  either  with  corruption  or  with  Ibis  great  objection  to  the  amendments  offered  to  the  original  proposhions  before  the  ilouse  was,  that  they  did  not  call  upon  the  House  to  pronotmee  any  judgment  on  the  guilt  or  innocence  of  the  DuLe.  'Flint  letter  which  had  been  addressed  by  his  Royal  II  igloo  r,  to  this  !louse,  so  far  was  it  from  ratting  upon  them  to  decide,  that  his  Royal  Highness  not  only  deprecated  a  decision  It  the  House,  but  told  them  very  candidly  to  acquit  him,  but  that,  if  he  vs  not  acquitted  by  the  House  of  Commons  they  should  refer  the  matter  to  some  other  tribunal  (!Hear  !  Hear  !  )  'l'lr.t  letter  he  thought  the  very  worst  of  councils  that  could  he  given  to  his  Royal  Highness.  Ile  had  only  to  observe,  that  he  would  to  God  it  was  in  his  power  to  expunge  the  setter  altogether  from  the  proceedings,  or  that  he  could  etface  the  recollection  of  it  from  the  memory  of  the  House.  (  Hear  !  braze  !  helle  !),  Such,  how  ever,  as  it  was,  he  should  submit,  that  it  at  present  remained  for  the  House  to  decide,  oo:y  is  ho hot  t hot  her  there  was  any  ground  to  impeach  his  It  al  Highness's  ei,fl ei,fl  - ei,fl  ?  In  the  first  place  he  could  net  say  that  he  disbelieved  the  evidence  of  Mrs.  Ciatke  ;  he  knew  there.  were  many  straol"
