text
"THE  NATIONATOtEGISTEL_  183  feet  ly  unim  peacha'ale  in  her  character.  With  respect  to  the  applt appltcation  cation appltcation  in  favour  of  General  Clavering,  it  was  incontrovertibly  proved,  that  his  Royal  Highness  gave  his  direct  car  to  the  ap application  plication application  by  Alt's.  Clarke  in  that  °dicer's  behalf.  The  case  of,  Taayn,  which  the  Right  lion.  Gentleman  (  Mr.  Perceval)  still  considered  doubtful,  airs  equally  incontestihha  if  there  was  t STYLE=superscript  atty  one  man  in  th'ss  House  who  oug  ht  to  entertain  It STYLE=superscript  doubt  up•  t  this  point,  the  Right  DA.  Gentleman  he  should  have  511  pponca  to  be  the  last  to  harbour  ate,  a  Len  be  remembered,  that  on  a  prosecutian,  which  was  comineted  by  that  tight  lion.  Gentle Gentletaan  taan Gentletaan  a  hilts  In'  was  .  3 STYLE=superscript  ,  mane  v-General,  in  the  Courts  below,  against  judge  Johnstone  for  a  had,  the  conviction  of  that  gentleman  was  obtained  by  a  mere  caraparison  of  hard-writinas,  alth  lp  ough  ex exthe  the exthe  evidence  was  equ  al STYLE=superscript  on STYLE=superscript  both  sides  ;  he  cottld  not  he  pressing  his  surprise  that  he  should  entertain  any  doubt  upon  the  subject  of  his  Royal  llighness's  time.  The  third  case  was  that  of  Samuel  Carter.  llow  would  Contlemen  blush  for  that  profession,  to  tad  that  their  sons  were  become  .  the  companion  of  the  foothov  of  I.‘larkeC:a  r  :  that  AN  ns  d  ear,  he  •ovteld  his  promotion  to  the  tits:ltlie:lce  of  las. STYLE=superscript  C STYLE=superscript  M  rs.  ke  tliat  from  the  improbability  that  the  reeonrreodat  0  ioh  of  Capt.  Sutton  had  any  Nveight  a  ith  tile  Puke  of  York  ;  and,  secondly,  the  grateful  letters  of  the  young  emu  himelf,  hich  were  highly  to  his  hotionr,  were  still  more  convincing  proofs  that  it  was  through  Mrs.  Cairke's  influence  with  the  Duke  that  he  ohtainod  the  conuni:,,ion.  To  hta;  was  he  indebted  for  lils  outfit,  and  ever  other  necessary  to  his  appointment.  Dr.  O`Mcara,  Mr.  El Elel'rton,  el'rton, Elel'rton,  and  Mr.  Dowler's  case,  f  orm  ed  the  1-ta  n  intlittingueuve  thupree,  wherein  it  w  a:,  to:wire  - STYLE=superscript  it,  that  to  Clarke's  on  the  Duke  of  York  they  owed  the  object  of  t  heirresnective  upp!i upp!i-cations.  cations. upp!i-cations.  (le  did  not  mean  a  t STYLE=superscript  all STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  infer, STYLE=superscript  that STYLE=superscript  th  1.  Dube  of  Yarl:  participated  in  any  of  the  galas  thus  made  by  Mrs.  Clarke,  butted  he  thought  the  charge  of  connivance  Was STYLE=superscript  billy  substautia  against  him,  and  consequently  that  he  ouaht  to  be  deprived  of  the  command  of  the  army.  Mr.  CROlina  said,  he  coald  not  give  silent  vote  ade  b  upon  y  this  subject,  more  especiAly  after  the  obavervations  m  the  lion.  Baronet  (Sir  F.  Burdett)  wit  h STYLE=superscript  respect  to  the  Learecil  Gentleman  who  commented  upon  the  evideace  adduced  upon  this  question.  The  Hon.  Gentleman  then  analized,  the  e  vidence  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  in  vs  . STYLE=superscript  hich  he  pointed  out  many  incow.i:•tencie.:,  which  appeared  to  him  obviously  calculated  to  impeach  the  whole  of  her  testimony.  It  was  upon  this  ground  he  rested  the  defence  of  his  Royal  Highness,  for  lie  emaciated  that  it  was  tit-  •  t  er  ly  impossible  to  c  onvict STYLE=superscript  him,  with  justice,  upon  the  testi.  mono  of  such  an  abandoned  woman.  'lnererticalar  were  conside  other  pa STYLE=superscript  rati  r STYLE=superscript  tson.  of  the  case  which  called  for  his  mo  re'  pa  lie  requested  the  House  most  earnestly  t  c  o  look  t  facts,  to  I  ry  the  veracity  of  the  witnesses,  and  not  toconfide  in  a STYLE=superscript  vain  sartnises.  Throughout  the  whole  of  Mrs.  Clarke's  evidence,  in  :11l  the  do documents  cuments documents  which,  through  her  means,  had  been  brought  before  the  H  ouse  ,  there  was  a  con  stant STYLE=superscript  want STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  dates.  This  circumstance  was  not  extraordinary,  as  it  strongly  supported  the  execution  of  her  nefarious  projects.  Samuel  Carter  was  represented  as  an  orphan  boy,  a  menial  dependant  on  her  pleasure  and  h  ..t  . STYLE=superscript  b  o  unty  ;  but  w  hen  were  such  representatio  u  nfortunate  youth,  ns  'malty  ?  W  hen  Capt.  Sutton,  w  ho  till  then  had  protected  the  w  as  dead.  She  then  suddenly  started  into  his  benefactress;  de declared  clared declared  her  influence  alone  had  procured  hitu  his  common,  and  her  liberality  supplied  his  wants.  That  was  the  account  given  by  Mrs,  Clarke;  the  following  was  given  by  truth  :  Captain  Sutton  procured  the  commission  for  his  prolege.,  who  lived  with  him  when  it  was  obtained,  and  %%hose  thanks  were  returned  to  to  the  Duke,  in  a  letter  that  was  still  i STYLE=superscript  loht  n STYLE=superscript  ex STYLE=superscript  a  i STYLE=superscript  ll  sense  of  his  skeare.  if,  after  the  death  of  this  o STYLE=superscript  ffi STYLE=superscript  cer, STYLE=superscript  t STYLE=superscript  he. STYLE=superscript  young STYLE=superscript  vvas  his  man  dig dignity,  nity, dignity,  and  willingly  stalk  into  a  serva  nt STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  Mrs. STYLE=superscript  Clarke; STYLE=superscript  s  account  ?  lt  was  the  re redegredation  degredation redegredation  chargeable  ou  the  Duke'  the  of  Captain  Sutton  alone  that  had  placed  him  in  the  army  in  the  rank  which  lie  occoliied.  The  date  of  his  com commission  mission commission  fully  proved  that  at  the  titats  when  he  was  said  to  stand  behind  Mrs.  Clarke's  chair,  three  days  after  she  ha STYLE=superscript  How  couldd  repaired  t  t  o  Gloucester  -place,  he  hag  received  his  be  said  then,  that  it  had  been  obtained  through  the  resistlets  influence  of  that  woman?  She  forgot  all  the  claims  which  the  young,  inexperienced  Carter  had  upon  her.  She  boasted  she  had  rai  , STYLE=superscript  eti  him  from  a  foot  -boy  into  a  gentleman,  and  now  that  he  had  for  sometime  enjoyed  all  the  advantages  which  the  latter  i  nto  in  society,  she  wished  to  degrade  him  from  a  gentle gentleman  man gentleman  into  a  footman.  The  Ron.  he  Membam  oaton  of  on  twhicho  the  case  of  Captains  Speding  and  `Conn,  t  ex  prove  to  the  House,  how  small  and  nugatory  was  the  por portion  tion portion  of  influence  which  I\lrs.  Clarke  possessed.  'Both  applied  at  the  stunt:  kime  to  this  pretended  yeader  of  promotions  !  but  the  foonei  paid  he  r STYLE=superscript  two STYLE=superscript  hundreti  ponntli  wore  than  the  latter  i  t  ,  ,~.  t  F  I'IN  IF  P7_TB00013 ONALAEGISTER;  183  ...,...  _.  ,_  •  into  - STYLE=superscript  fee  unim  peach:l  l STYLE=superscript  4le  in  her  character.  W  ith  respect  to  the  appla.  ~  •  t.  testi-  cation  in  favour  of  General  Clavering,  it  was  incontrovertibly  a  her  proved,  that  his  Ito\  al  Highness  gave  his  direct  ear  to  the  erzOU  plication  by  Airs.  Clarke  in  thataollicer's  behalf.  The  case  of  1,  2  !i  en-  Toayn,  which  the  Right  Hon.  Gentleman  (  Mr.  Perc  ' STYLE=superscript  eva6  - STYLE=superscript  Still:  il  coal-  considered  doubtful,  was  equally  incontestihle•  If  there  was  k  1  a  n  tong,  any  one  man  in  this  'louse  who  ought  to  entertain  a  doubt  upon  levity  this  point,  the  Right  HA.  Gentleman  he  should  beet  supposed  ,f  ind  of  to  be  the  last  to  harbour  awe,  when  he  rememd,  that  on  a  .1  i  ew  a  , STYLE=superscript  prosecutinn,  which  was  cotaineted  by  that  Right  Hon.  Gentle-  r  ;  that  it  man  while  he  was  A  ttornev-Lieneral,  in  the  Courts  below,  against  I  '  irczon.  I  3  udge  Johnstone  for  a  lia  . STYLE=superscript  el,  the  conviction  of  that  gentleman  i  nee  it-  •  was  obtained  by  a  mere  eeraperison  of  hardtings,  although  he  cottld  not  help  ex-  I  i  parts,  the  evidence  was  equal  on  both  sides  ;  finny  of  pressing  his  surprise  that  he  should  entertain  attv  doubt  anon  1?  ,. STYLE=superscript  !.,,-'  ail  se  of  the  subject  of  his  Royal  llighness's  woe.  The  third  case  '  ,ire  het  was  that  of  Samuel  Carter.  How  would  Gentlemen  blush  for  a  il  e  i..  ad  that  profeasion,  to  tad  that  their  sons  were  become  •  the  I,  tie  iOss  companion  of  the  foothoy  of  lAlas.  Clarke:  that  he  •  •00tfitt  •  it  was  his  promotion  to  the  tient-%  ciente  of  Mrs.  Clarke  AN  ns  clear,  I  .  A,  (it  al  1  hilt  front  the  improbabill  .  ty  that  the  reeomtreodatioh  of  Capt.  'ding  in  1  Sutton  had  any  Nveight  w  ith  the  Puke  of  York  ;  and,  secondly,  ..  tar  t  l  1  the  gratefui  letters  of  the  young  emu  himself,  o  hich  were  highly  il  ha  by  \to  his  honour,  were  still  more  convincing  proofs  that  it  was  A  a  i  i,  pehlic,  through  Mrs.  Clarke's  influence  with  the  Duke  that  he  obtained  o  Ls  them-  1  the  conwal:,,ion.  To  hea  vvas  he  indebted  for  his  outfit,  and  e  a  mo  st  ever  other  accessary  to  his  appointment.  Dr.  01Mcara,  Mr.  El-  ..,l  ii  me  had  a  el'rton,  and  Mr.  Doppler's  ease,  formed  the  rernainiog  three,  feeling,  wherein  it  wit:,  warife-it,  that  to  Mrs.  Clarke's  influenve  upon'  the  Duke  of  York  w  they  owed  the  object  of  theirresnective  appli-  s  o  much  1 STYLE=superscript  cations.  lie  did  not  mean  at  all  to  infer,  that  th!  buhe  of  Yark  o  collect  participated  in  any  of  the  gaias  thus  made  by  Mrs.  Clarke,  but  i STYLE=superscript  l  lt STYLE=superscript  '  he  thought  the  charge  of  connivance  W:tC  billy  substaatiated  ty  three  against  him,  and  consequently  that  lie  ou:.;ht  to  be  deprived  of  e  Exehe-  the  ' STYLE=superscript  command  of  the  army.  t  '  its  Royal  'Alr.  CRON:  mt  said,  he  could  not  give  a  silent  vote  upon  this  t  he  'night  subject,  •more  especiAly  after  the  otr.ervations  made  by  the  ‘  i  e  Learned  -ought  in  1  Hon.  Baronet  (Sir  F.  Burdett)  with  respect  to  the  Learacit  .  11 STYLE=superscript  4  fib  his  full  Gentleman  who  commented  upon  the  evidehce  adduced  upon  this  A  question.  The  Hon.  Gentleman  then  analized,  the  e  vidence  i  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  in  vs  . STYLE=superscript  hich  he  pointed  out  many  inconsistencie.:,  uljourned.  It  which  appeared  to  him  obviously  calculated  to  impeach  the  whole  of  her  testimony.  li  was  upon  this  ground  he  rested  the  defence  of  his  Roy  al STYLE=superscript  Highness,  for  lie  contended  that  it  was  ot-  •  ,  t  er  ly  impossible  to  c  onvict STYLE=superscript  him,  with.justice,  upon  t  h  e  testi.  i%  .11  many  of  such  an  abandoned  woman.  Tere  were  other  parts  of  3  1  .,  rose  should  the  case  which  called  for  his  more  poeticalar  consideration.  ;.  would  pre-  lie  requested  the  House  most  earnestly  canticlek  atfacts,  to  try  i  -1..  a  the  pro-  the  veracity  of  the  witnesses,  and  not  to  in  v  tanises.  the  Duke  Throughout  the  whole  of  Mrs.  Clarke's  evidence,  in  all  the  do-  •  il-i  imander  in  currents  which,  through  her  means,  had  been  brought  before  th  1.•  .  1  ,„  '  trial.  Be  House,  there  was  a  constant  want  of  dates.  This  circumstance  1  tic  servant,  was  not  extraordinary,  as  it  strongly  supported  the  execution  of  •  kvever  there  her  nefarious  projects.  Sanita•l  Carter  was  representedrete  as  yet  that  it  an  orphan  boy,  a  menial  dependant  on  her  le  a  le.tr  z.  1  nit  for  am-  bounty  ;  but  when  were  such  representations  - STYLE=superscript  made  ?  W  hen  ,  was  there  Capt.  Sutton,  who  till  then  had  pratected  the  u  nfortunate  youth,  servant  any  was  (lead.  She  then  suddenly  started  into  his  benefactress;  de-  1  ild  conceive  shared  h-er  influence  alone  had  procured  hint  his  cominision,  and  ry  improper  her  liberality  supplied  his  wants.  That  was  the  account  given  ase  was  ccr-  by  Mrs,  Clarke;  the  following  was  given  by  truth  :  Captain  elision,  to  he  Sutton  procured  the  commission  for  his  prolege',  who  lived  'with  than  proba-  him  when  it  was  obtained,  and  vt  hose  thanks  were  returned  to  dof  corrupt  to  the  Duke,  in  a  letter  that  was  still  ia  existeace.  if,  after  A  .c.  fifty  other  the  death  of  this  racer,  t  he.  young  man  lost  all  sense  of  his  dig-  s  accountthe  re-  .:  ...  ...,...  .  .  iif  there  was  nits',  and  willingly  sunk  into  a  servant  of  Mrs.  Clarke;  was  his  t  ..  ..  nin  the  first,  degredation  chargeable  on  the  Duke'  tale,  and  hv  commendation  of  Captain  Sutton  alone  that  had  placed  him  in  11a  - STYLE=superscript  used  would  the  army  in  the  rank  which  lie  oectepied.  The  date  of  his  com-  p  the  heaviest  mission  ►  fully  proved  that  at  the  time  when  he  was  said  to  stand  de  the  ground  behind  Mrs.  Clarke's  chair,  three  days  after  she  had  repaired  o  v-lender.  In  Gloucester  -place,  he  hag  received  his  commission.  How  could(t  t.....•  I  fully  proved,  Ibe  said  then,  that  it  had  been  obtained  through  the  resistlets  ttilliStanCe,  as  influence  of  that  woman?  She  forgot  all  the  claims  which  the  his  being  lin-  i  young,.  inexperienced  Carter  had  upon  her.  She  boasted  she  /mute.  With-  `hat  val.:ea  him  from  a  foot  -boy  into  a  gentleman,  and  now  tat  ,  f  Mrs.  Clarke,  he  had  for  sometime  enjoyed  all  the  advantages  which  the  latter  i  ght  to  b  e  put  possessed  in  socie  t STYLE=superscript  y  , STYLE=superscript  she STYLE=superscript  wished STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  degrade STYLE=superscript  him STYLE=superscript  from STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  gentle- STYLE=superscript  e  other  side  of  man  into  a  footman.  The  Ron.  Member  oat  on  to  the  case  of  t  the  remaining  Captains  Spetting  and  Tony  n,  the  examon  of  which  would  1  the  charge  of-  proVe  to  the  House,  how  small  and  nugatory  was  the  par-  ii,  Ugliness.  The  1  lion  of  influence  which  Airs.  Clarke  possessed.  'Both  applied  at  ,  i  to  have  heard  the  striae  time  to  this  pretended  treader  of  promotions  !  but  the  •,_  ,  state  to  be  per-  fps'  paid  her  two  hundreti  poandi  sore  than  the  latter  i  ~  1,  4  ,  l"
