text
"THE  NATONAL  It'd,.  11._  G.  .4.  Child,  P0'591%  scriypqtr  a.  at  .  .el  p  vq  a  .at  the  Bosh  Tavern,  Bristol.  March  1.4.  J.  O.  Parr,  and  T.  Patritk  l  •Suilblk-lane  ,  in insurnme  surnme insurnme  brokers,  at'  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  .:Feb.  15.  W.  Hilton,  and  J.  Jacltson,  OXfordAroad,  at  ten,  -  - STYLE=superscript  et  Guildhall.  •  •  •  •  Wm.  Ogilvy,  jun.  G,  Mylne,  and  John  Chalmers,  Jeffrey's-square,  Inp•c  limits,  at  ten,  at  - STYLE=superscript  Guildhall.  .  b2II.TIFICArES--:FED.  11.  .atnnel  Statham,  &amp;Ivan  Statham,  and  Henry  Garton,  Not-.  i‘tiiltam,..hotiers—Thomac  Teddington,  Middlesex,  Isigtster—Christopher  Parnall,  St.  Austell,Corasvall,  merchant.  .  •  JAN.  Q.  the,  ;  ressfl  t.  elimbed  awa.  laijied  lantistratiel  and  Ota  reiurned  10  - STYLE=superscript  tbe  to  waft  the  - STYLE=superscript  di  - STYLE=superscript  4441d  iiiid  — STYLE=superscript  MYStfirdr  the  tide.  But  such  was  the  force  of  the  existing  current,  that:  npwiirds  of  fifteen  yards  of  the  ballustrade  were  throWri  into  the  river,  and  four  men  were  killed  oa  board  the  barge  by  the  , STYLE=superscript  stones.  •  •  .  .  On  Thursday  evening  a  gentleman  who  resides  at  Walwortb,  was  accosted  under  the  Asylum  wall  by  ainnti  who  inquired  of  him  the  time  of  night  ;•  being  told  he  had  no  watch,  gnotherTel gnotherTellow  low gnotherTellow  came  up  with  a  hanger,  cut  the  gentleman  over  the  head  and  robbed  him  of6ol.  in  Bank  notes.  The  villains  effected  their  escape.  The  gentleman  was  taken  home  in  a  very  dangerous  state.  A  few  days  sinee  as  Mrs.  DubHy,  of  Prince's-street,  Black Blackfriar's-road,  friar's-road, Blackfriar's-road,  was  sitting  by  the  fire-side,  she  was  seized  with  a  fit,  and  fell  into  the  fire,  by  which  her  arms,  face  and  hands  were  so  shockingly  burnt,  that  she  died  the  next  day  in  the  greatest  agony:  A  gentleman  bad  his  leg  broke  yesterday,  occasioned  by  his  h9rse  falling  with  him  whilst  going  along  'Compton-street.  The  horse  started  at  some  mischievous  boys,  and  fell  with  violence  on  his  left  side.  BIRTHS.  -  At  Bath,  Ashe,  wife  of  Mr.  Ashe,  Principal  Flat*  at  the  Opera.  of  a  son,  on  Wednesday  last.  The  wife  of  a  poor  man.  named  Win.  Turner,  of  Tong-lane,  near  Middleton,  was  safely  delive►ed  of  three  girls,  on  the  firSt  day  of  this  month,  who,  with  the  *other,  are  all  likely  to  de  well.'  They  were  baptised  on  the  same  day  by  the  Rev.  Mr.  Lister,  curate  of  Middleton,  by  the  names  of  Faith,  Hope,  and  Charity  ;  and  dp  i  e  last  name  was  given  tos  the  largest  of  them,  tpeviptitest  of  these  is  DIED.  Welt,.  aged-101,  Thrums  Cleo.  He  had  repent  the  early  -v.  of  his  life  -"
