text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  I  IR~  was  natural  to  suppose  she  would,  in  comiequence  of  his  libera liberality,  lity, liberality,  have  made  greater  exertions  in  his  behalf:  But  this  was  not  the  case  :  he  was  at  last  gazetted,  hut  she  had  no  share  in  his  promotion.  She  declared  that  she  had  a  list  containing  more  than  two  hundred  naines  of  persons  who  wanted  situations,  either  in  the  military  or  the  civil  line.  But  was  it  not  strange  that  a  woman,  svho  boasted  more  influeace  in  the  disposal  of  places  than  the  Queen  herself,  should,  in  the  space  of  three  months  be  able  to  do  nothing  for  any  one  of  those  who  de depended  pended depended  on  her  interest  with  the  Commander  in  Chief?  Who  Can  believe  after  the  proofs  that  have  been  adduced,  that  Mrs.  CLr  ke  ever  possessed  any  influence?  On  Speding's  case  rests  the  measure  of  that  boasted  influence;  because  she  certain certainly  ly certainly  exerted  herself  to  the  utmost  of  her  ability.  Yet,  after  six  months  of  fruitless  expectations  he  found  himself  disappointed  in  his  warmest  hopes.  Were  this  case  such  as  Mrs.  Clarke  re represented  presented represented  it,  true,  had  his  Royal  Highnie-s  given  the  cheating  instructions  which  her  lips  delivered,  lie  must  be  the  most  infa infamous,  mous, infamous,  detestable,  woman-ridden  ru4jiau.  She  was  asked  whether  she  could  recollect  any  of  the  names  w  hick  composed  the  long  list  which  she  tied  mentioned  ;  and  that  of  Major  Tucker  was  the  in:ly  one  she  did  remember.  She  must  have  paid  an  equal  degree  of  attention  to  them  all,  and  yet  the  name  of  Major  Tucker  alone  remained  imprinted  on  her  mind.  After  a  life  spent  in  the  service  of  his  country,  after  distin distinguishing  guishing distinguishing  himself  wherever  valour  and  great  talents  could  rend  distinction,  this  officer  was  carried  in  sight  of  his  native  shore,  oa  his  return  from  glorious  labours,  v  hen  his  vessel  was.  'wrecked,  and  his  invaluable  life  sun!  a  prey  to  the  %valves.  lie  could  not  now  contradict  the  tales  in  w  filch  Mrs.  Clarke  had  cnwoven  his  name.  His  tongue  was  cold  in  death,  and  hie  country  wept  over  his  corpse.  All  her  actions  seemed  to  the.  Honourable  :leather  to  he  stained  with  the  deepest  guilt  and  corruption.  The  Duke  of  York  was  not  only  said  to  have  sold  an  appointment,  but  to  have  gratified  the  revenge  of  his  coueubine  by  diminishing  its  revenue.  Mrs.  Clarke  com complained,  plained, complained,  according  to  her  own  account,  of  baying  been  dis disappointed  appointed disappointed  by  Colonel  Shaw,  after  she  had  obtained  for  him  the  promotion  which  she  hat  promised  to  get  ;  and  requested  his  Royal  !lightness  to  reduce  that  officer  to  half  pay.  Witli  this  request  the  Duke  complied,  and  Colonel  Shaw  was  under  the  necessity  of  apologizing  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  offering  her  some  additional  bribe,  in  order  to  reg;;!ii  his  full  pay.  The  tale  was  plausible  ;  but  its  falsehood  would  be  easily  detected,  through  the  very  means  that  bad  been  employed  to  insure  safe  conceal concealment.  ment. concealment.  A  letter  from  Co'inel  Shaw  stated,  that  •she  was-to  re receive  ceive receive  3031.  a  clerk  from  Coutes  bank  paid  her  200!.  and  in informed  formed informed  her  that  she  was  not  to  receive  any  more  moue:;.  Aftk.r  examining  Coutes  hooks,  it  appeared  that  the  sum  of:200/.  had  been  paid  on  the  sith  day  of  Mardi,  1896;  and,  from  the  pay  rolls,  that  Colonel  Shaw  was  reduced  to  half-pay  the  day  be before.  fore. before.  Although  the  Honourable  Member  thought  the  Duke  of  York  innocent  of  any  connivance  in  Mrs.  Clarke's  canna  deal dealings,  ings, dealings,  yet  he  deemed  hitu  hizhly  culpable  for  havingaanswered  Clavering's  applications.  He  differed  in  some  degree-  front  the  sentiments  expressed  in  both  Addresses.  The  country  was  in  anxious  expectation  of  the  result  of  this  Inquary,  and  he  thought  the  fairest  way  of  sat;sfying  the  ntoiou  as  to  the  conduct  of  its  representatives,  was  to  let.  the  country  know  how  every  Member  voted.  (  Loud  cries  of  approbation  from  goer,;  part  of  the  House.)  Let  the  question  therefore  be  put,  whether  II  toe  Duke  he  guilty  of  corruption  and  connivance  or  not,  whether whetherhe  he whetherhe  ought  to  be  removed  i•  or,  let  an  Address,  if  preferred,  be  presented  to  his  Majesty.  Sir  FRANcis  licani..:TT  rose  to  explain.  He  would  not  re repel,  pel, repel,  with  asperity,  an  imputation,  which,  if  true,  only  tended  to  prove  that  he  had  offered  to  sacrifice  -lOW/.  in  order  to  ex expose  pose expose  secret  corruption  to  the  condemning  eye  of  the  uatien,  and  the  scourge  of  justice.  •  He,  however,  denied  having  eve  e  made  Bach  a  propos3l.  Mr.  (sou  r,  (ofNorfolk)--T  shall  not  trouble  the  House,  which  has  so  patiently  endured  the  ropetitioo  of  loog  speeches  on  the  ev  ides  ce  ;  hut,  as  au  independent  •  man,  and  as  an  Eug Euglishman,  lishman, Euglishman,  j  shall  not  hesitate  to  declare  my  opinion  fully,  plainly,  and  without  reserve.  Sir,  to  the  the  case,  taking  it  al altogether,  together, altogether,  is  -so  strong  ;—the  conourreot  testimony  so  clear;—and  the  cetiaan;ratine;  cireumstances,  tOe  eirculostawial  es  idence,  so  conclu:ive,  that  it  (lees  not  leave  the  smallest  doubt  on  my  mind  -ttor,  as  I  *should  think.,  ran  it  ou  ttiat  of  the  public,  of  tl:e  con connivance  nivance connivance  awl  corruptimi  of.  the  Duke  of  York—(  /icor!  *or  !)  —I  do  ittl'icve  aim  to  havebeen  corrupt  at  theextrrrue-(  !!gar  !  hear  ,4efir!  )--.;:r;  to  all  Court;  orihsvlice  witoN,-..,  - STYLE=superscript  may  come  duo  S4't':!r&#34;  it,  di  I  etli  circituistvlinl  evideocr  has  pro-  frviD.;  ;0.15  Fell  :lore  crimoisali  Sv  tnieg:tr.  •  7  •  MARCH  19.  lows—than  any  otherspecies  of  testimony  whatever.—From  the  evidence  in  this  case—direct  and  circumstantial—T,  for  my  own  part,  do  believe  that  the  Duke  of  York  knew  of  the  whole  of  these  proceedings  of  Mrs.  Clarke—of  this  inertil's  traffic  in  military  and  other  promotions—from  the  beginning  to  the  end  of  his  connection  with  her--(  !fear!  hear  !  hear  !  )  —I  rise,  Sir,  as  the  determined  enemy  of  corruption,  which  I  am  revolved  to  the  last  moment  of  my  life  to  oppose,  in  every  person  of  whatever  rank  or  station  even  though  he  should  be  supported  by  all  the  eloquewe  of  those  who  may  choose  to  reap  the  fruits  of  it.—l  shall  therefore  most  certainly  vote  for  the  original  Address,  as  proposed  by  the  Ho Honourable  nourable Honourable  Mover,  whom  I  think,  deserves  the  thanks  of  this  House,  and  of  the  whole  Country.—W  hen  I  look  at  the  situation  of  some  of  the  Gentlemen  who  have  spoken  last,  and  who  have  made  long  speeches  on  the  Ministerial  side  of  the  House  ;  it  does  not,  I  think,  become  me  to  pay  much  attention  to  what  they  say.—Their  arguments.  though  triumphantly  delivered,  are  not,  in  my  mind,  worthy  of  ;men,  tion  or  credit,  when  consideration  of  the  motives  are  taken  into  the  account,  (  Hear  !  Meer:  and  Order  !  Chair  I!  )  Sir,  I  could  not,  consistently  with  my  principles  as  an  independent  and  honest  man  ;—and  with  my  duty,  as  one  of  the  reprrlen reprrlentati  tati reprrlentati  yes  of  the  people  of  this  kingdom,  forbear  delivering  my  opinion  on  so  important  an  occasion.  1  have  stated  my  senti,  ments  plaiolv,  and  without  reserve,  and  shall  conclude,  by  of,  fering  my  sincere  and  hearty  thanks  to  the  lion.  Gentleman  who  has  had  the  independence  to  bring  forward  this  Inquiry  ;  for  the  inaffiv  firmness  tt  ith  which  he  has  persevered  in  bringing  to  light  these  extraordinary  !ransactions.  WYNI)II.IM  thought  it  difficult  to  make  the  distinction  beta  een  connivance  and  corruption.  That  House  must  determine  whether  connivance  had  been  proved  ;  it  must  determine  as  to  the  Duke's  ionocence  or  guilt;  but.  however  it  might  be.  he  could  ntake  no  degrees  of  acquittal.  The  evidence  of  a  suspicious  wit witness  ness witness  could  not  he  taken  so  fully  as  that  of  a  witness  without  sus suspicion.  picion. suspicion.  As  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  there  was  a  pertness  and  a  flip flippancy,  pancy, flippancy,  which  showed  she  had  lost  that  part  of  virtue  a  hich  carried  with  it  shame.  There  was  nothing  in  het  evidence  that  seemed  to  be  premeditated.  She  furnished  answers  to  all  that  was  asked  her,  with  the  greatest  facility.  It  was  this  facility  that  ought  to  make  them  caution,,  as  it  had  so  much  the  appear appearance  ance appearance  of  truth.  But  then  again  there  was  this  that  recommended  her  evidence  to  our  notice,  that  circumstances  had  come  up  in  the  course  of  the  examination  to  corroborate  what  Mrs.  Clarke  had  previously  stated.  lie  could  not  approve  of  the  manner  in  which  it  had  been  endeavoured  to  impeach  the  credibility  or  Miss  Taylor  . STYLE=superscript  .  Mrs.  Clarke's  character  was  bad,  but  her  evidence  was  good;  the  character  of  Miss  Taylor  was  good,  but  her  evidence  wa  had.  Miss  Taylor  came  with  a  ready-answered  question  :  she  had  had  her  memory  refreshed.  lie  then  stated  that  he  wish wished  ed wished  the  decision  as  to  persons  to  be  like  the  grave,  which  made  no  distinederns.  Ile  concluded  by  approving  of  the  Honourable  Member's  (Mr.  Banks)  amendment,  •but  that  must  be  with  an  explanation.  Lord  CAsvit.Enr  %GI!  rose,  amid  loud  and  repeated  cries  of  Question  !  Questio►i  and  after  noticing  some  parts  of  the  Hon.  ik.utletnan's  (  Mr.  Wyndham)  speech  as  to  the  mode  of  proceed proceeding,  ing, proceeding,  he  defended  that  of  his  Right  lion.  Friend  (the  Chancellor  , STYLE=superscript  of  the  Exchequer.)  The  Noble  Lord  commented  at  considerable  length  on  various  parts  of  the  evidence  against  the  Royal  Duke,  and  concluded'  n  ith  expressing  his  firm  conviction  of  Itl  intro.  cence.--Adjourned  to  Wednesday..  •  •  Wednecday,  ✓)lurch  15.  If  E  DUKE  OF  yttn.K.  Lord  MILTON  begged  leave  to  traeble  the  House  with  a  few  words  on  what  secured  to  him  rather  a  curious  argument,  which  had  fallen  from  a  Learned  Judge  who  spoke  second  in  the  debat.  , STYLE=superscript  (Mr.  Burton).  That  Learned  Person  had  said,  that  be because'Mrs.'Clarke  cause'Mrs.'Clarke because'Mrs.'Clarke  was  an  immoral  character,  and  had  contra  , STYLE=superscript  -  dieted  hersef  in  several  parts-  of  her  evidence,  he  would  have  the  whole  of  her  evidence  expunge=d  from  the  Al  buttes.  Now  the  Noble  Lord  could  not  help  thinking,  that  if  that  doctrine  were  to  be  admitted,  it  would  go  to  sweep  away  the  evidence  of  al almost  most almost  every  4itle  who  had  been  heard  at  the  Bar.  From  the  most  deliberate  view  that  he  had  been  able  to  take  of  Airs.  Clarke's  testimony,  and  from  the  facts  in  support  of  her  testimony,  which  had  appenred  ia  evidence  at  the  Bar,  it  was  his  mnscienf  loos  opi opinion,  nion, opinion,  tlial  the  p.resent  Commander  in  Chief  coutd,not  :with  safety  to  the  intblie  he  permitted  to  retain  his  situation.  (Hear  !  hear!)  They  Ntid,  that  ;  it  was  impossible  for  the  Royal  Duke  so  C  I  commit  .hiniselisi  But  WileWhe  reflected  lkuw  far  he,had  coot.  P8_TB00011 P8_TB00012 7  .;  (  •"
