text
"SUNDAY,  JA  WARY  22,  POLITICAL  DisecurioN.  NUMBER  FIFTY-FOUR.  ER  CO-OPERATION  IN  FAVOUR  OF  THE  SPANIARDS  UNAVAILING  ?  hopes  which  ought  never  to  be  abandoned:  a  cause  which  should  never  be  considered  as  is  that  of  justice  and  freedom.  It  betrays  as  , STYLE=superscript  wardice  as  it  dots  perversity  of  heart  and  head,  to  refuse  to  eo-operate  in  such  a  cause.  Let  us  any  individual  who  acts  from  other  motives  of  vulgar  selfishness,  if  the  chances  of  failure  prevent  him  from  making  great  efforts  and  great  support  of  what  he  considers  equally  advan advanthe  the advanthe  score  of  personal  utility,  as  on  the  cOmpre cOmpre'of  'of cOmpre'of  justice.  lie  answers,  without  hesitation,  negative.  .ly  one  opinion  as  to  the  advantage  of  res.  from  the  grasp  of  the  enemy  ;  and  the  justice  measure  was,  we  believe,  never  called  in  question.  honour,  and  sympathy,  in  the  unmerited  suffer sufferpeople,  people, sufferpeople,  encourage  .us  to  make  the  most  vi viefforts  efforts viefforts  to  that  effect  ;  and  the  atrocity  of  the  ag.  together  with  the  vast  accumulation  of  means  of  it  places  at  the  disposal  of  the  enemy,  ie  oisnecesa,  are  :motives  powerful  enough  to  induce  nes  have  an  arm  to  raise,  or  a  shilling  to  spend,  in  our  exertimis.  It  is  painful  to  be  recommend  over  and  over  again  what  is  obvious  'to  who  is  not  wilfully  blind,  or  perversely  igno.  notwithstanding  the  reverses  the  Spaniards  ,fined  of  late,  a.single  example  will  clearly  de-•  that  we  have  still  the  uscaps  in  our  .power,  if  iployed,  of  effectinLtheir  deliverance,  tuation  of  Rome  lifter  the  battle  of  Cannae,  and  Of  uninterrupted  disasters,  in  which  she  lost  ialf  her  active  population,  aud,  in  fact,  every  courage  and  virtues  of  her  citizens,  was,  ac  lilgar  estimation,  the  most  desperate  and  it  within  the  range  of  possibility.  The  most  en en.t&amp;priOng,  .t&amp;priOng, en.t&amp;priOng,  intelligent,  and  wary  General,  according  to  the  unanimous  testimony  of  historians,  recorded  in  ancient  an‘  mbdern  annals,  had  encamped  under  her  walls,  with  a  nu.  :  merous  and  highly-disciplined  army,  elate  with  constant  success,  and  the  most  unlimited  confidence  in  their  own  prowess  and  the  skill  of  their  oommaader.  She  had  1011,  al  few  days  previous  to  this  event,  70;000  of  her  citizens  in  a  I  pitched  battle,  and,  in  the  course  of  the  three  preceding  campaigns,  all  the  acquisitions  she  had  matte  during  five  centuries  of  success  and  the  most  heroic  exertions.  In  this  dreadful  juncture  of  her  affairs,  so  far  from  proposing  a  compromise  with  the  enemy  !  the  very  field  on  which  he  was  encamped  was  bought  in  a  public  auction,  at  the  ordi ordinary  nary ordinary  price  it  would  have  sold  for  in  times  of  the  greatest  p  - STYLE=superscript  osperity.  This  magnanimity  . STYLE=superscript  had  its  effect.  Every  class  f  citizens,  the  two  sexes,  the  youug  and  the  old,  vied  with  each  rel.  Lother  in  zeal  as  well  as  disiuterestedness,  .0.041  in  the  deter deter•  • deter•  •  •  •  ciination  to  bury  themselves  ,i  uclq,t4e.  burning  ruins  of  their  houses  and  temples,  so.oner  :  th*lN  concede  a  particle  of  their  former  rights,  or  cowntt9  ;  the  of  a  single  acre  of  their  former  acquisitions..  Ther  .  drOc  a  ,  as  might  be  expected,  this  dreadful  enemy  from  theic  shores;  re recovered,.  covered,. recovered,.  by  never  riesponaing  in  ,the  worst  crisis  9f  their,  ialfairi,  all.  they.  had  lost,  aud.  'puler  the  guidance.  Of  a  hero  whom  occurrent:es  ;  ,stiA.As,  inevitably:  create,  a  mighty  army,ontlie  very  te  s  riltury  of  their  zivals,  reduced  them,  (or  ever,4.9the  ipauleolcupcnvisjpg  them.  alarm  or  ,  jealousy.  •  •  •  A,  -f:  Jo;  '•  .  Our  situation,  through  the  interposition-of  Providence;.  lls  neither  so  try  iagi  nor  so  despiessite:  Local  advastageiti  and  incidental  circuinstanees  have  preserved  our  habitation.'  from  the  visitation  of  war  •  and  its  calamities;  and  oUr  •  courage  and  patriotism  have  not  been  .as  yet  put  to  the.  severe  trial  of  barring,  with  your,  ',ululated  carcases,  thes  entrance  into  our  vapital.  Should  the  vicissitudes  ot  . STYLE=superscript  ..war,  however,  expose  our  beloved  country,  our  .wives,  an  our  •  daughters  to  the  licentious  brutality,  the;  insatiable  very.  geauce  and  avidity  of  200,000  Frenchmen,  accustomed,  fort  eighteen  years,  to  every  species  of  crime  and  excess,  em:.  ducted  by  the  ruffian,  who  has  so  fatally  succeeded  in  re reducing  ducing reducing  the  greater  part  of  tho.continent  to  one  iaexpres iaexpressible  sible iaexpressible  scene  of  poverty,:  desolation  and  carnage,  there  are,  we  believe,  confideatly,  few  among  us,  who  would  think  of  , STYLE=superscript  inditillb/inl  - STYLE=superscript  -safety  at  - STYLE=superscript  ,tho:e.iteisur  or  I  OM.  •  avoid',  i'personal  inconvestiesice.  [tramples  of  Roinan  maguaii.-  I  tuity  would  not  be  wanting:  Jittery  town  and  village  would  arm  its  population,  and  fohn  of  them  a  sacred  pha-  •  thina  of  desperate  patriots,  determined  *to-defend,  with  their  I  Ayes,  every  fence  and  avenue,  street  and  house,  against  the  ferocious  invaders.  Our  fields  may  be  ravaged,  our  cities  ;levelled  with  the  ground,  •our.naval  arsenals  consumed  by  Cre,  the  monunientsof  our  national  greatness  and  opulence  !Wed,  our  defenceless  parents  and  females  outraged,  and  everyexcess,  which  implacable  hatred,  bast,  sad  rapine  are  capable  of  itommitting  or  inspiring,  be  wildly  indulged  in  ;  but  the  last  Englishman  we  trust  would  die  free  and  in invoking  voking invoking  his  country,  rather  than  become  the  abject  slave  of  an  insolent  unprincipled  tyrant.  'truly  as  we  deprecate  the  possibility  of  such  an  occur occurrence,  rence, occurrence,  this  arduous  trial  of  our  fortitude  and  patriotism  unavoidably  awaiti  us,  should  the  enemy  obtain  voluntary  or  forced  possession  of  Spain  and  Portugal.  Let  us  not  deceive  ourselves,  the  invasion  of  our  shores  is  not  so  impracticable  as  we  fondly  imagine.  Men,  who  are  now  averse  to  our  sending  efficacious  assistance  to  the  Spaniards,  and  whose  irregular  ambition  may  see  a  prospect  of  gratification  in  the  dis disasters  asters disasters  of  their  country,  tell  us  that  the  enemy  can  never  escape  the  vigilance  of  our  navy.  Those  men  impose  upon  the  public,  and  we  arc  afraid  intentionally.  For  they  can can:not  :not can:not  but  know,  that  if  BOVAPARTE  succeed.  in  subjugating  our  allies,  that  every  hope  of  successful  resistance  to  his  power  is  extinguished  for  the  future.  By  thnt  one  act  he  becomes  absolute  arbiter'  of  the  destinies  of  the  Continent.  P1_TB00024 '1  oar  P1_TB00025 I"
