text
"VIE  NATIONAL  11P,GISTElt.  FEB.  It  The  damage  at  Batb,  in  consequence  of  the  late  excessive  floods  bathe  AVOID  luta  been  very  distressing.  One  entire  street  is  stated  to  have  bets  undermined,  and  to  hate  suddenly  fallen.  crushing  the  greater  part  of  the  inhabitants.  The  roofs  of  come  houses  were  seen  floating  down  the  river,  and  amidst  the  ruins  a  cradle  with  an  infeut  child  was  discovered  ;  several  effort  were  ineffecteally  'male  to  rescue  the  child,  when  a  turn  of  the  eddy  drove  it  within  reach  from  the  bank.  MVRDER.--On  Monday,  an  inquisition  was  Led  at  the  Flee  Bells,  at  Newecross,  Deptfortl,•  on  the  body  of  Lieutenant  John  Johnson,  of  the  Navy,  who  was  found  about  seven  o'clock  on  the  morning  of  . STYLE=superscript  Saturday  last,  in  a  .itch,  and  by  the  White  Gates  that  lead  to  Mr.  Hartleastle's  mansion-house,  most  inhumanly  murdered.  Mr.Jemmett,  the  Coroner,  opeued  the  can  —.Tames  Smith,  who  has  for  20  years  last  p;:st  drove  the  waggon  of  Mr.  Robert  Edwards,  gardetvr,  of  New-cross,  Deptford,  said  that  about  half  past  one  in  the  morning  of  Saturday,  be  was  coming  up  with  his  team,  when,  on  his  way,  a  man  accosted  him  with  toe  brogue  of  an  Irishman,  stout,  and  armed  with  a  large  stick,  who  asked  first,  how  far  it  was  to  London  Bridge  ?  He  said,  three  miles  from  the  next  stone.  Ile  then  asked  where  be  was  ?  He  replied,  at  New-cross.  He  accompanied  the  wit witness  ness witness  for  near  20)  yards,  until  he  stopped  at  the  Five  Bells,  which  was  more  fur  the  purpose  of  getting  rid  of  the  man  than  any  other  reason;  hr  saw  a  comrade  or  two  of  his  walking  ga  the  road,  but  the!:  did  not  speak  to  him.  racy  were  less  thi  l  A  the  first  man.  They  must  all  three  have  got  out  of  the  - STYLE=superscript  ditch.  •  Mr.  Blauchard,  surgerie,  at  Peckham,  who  attended,  fully  set  out  the  state  of  the  deceased  when  he  saw  him.  Nis  throat  'was  cut  from  ear  to  ear,  and  his  head  nearly  severed  from  his  body.  He  had  nine  wouiil,s  about  his  fare,  and  iu  particular  the  lower  part  at  the  hack  of  the  head  were  several  severe  contusions  and  outs,  and  hi,  left  thumb  was  nearly  cut  off,  there  could  be  ra  doubt  that  the  wounds  be  had  received  was  the  cause  of  his  death,  and  most  probably  inflicted  in  a  dreadful  struggle.  It  appears  that  the  deceased  was  a  lieutenant  in  the  navy,  and  from  his  earliest  years  had  been  in  that  service  ;  be  was  about  forty-five  years  old,  and  had  late  belunged  to  the  ship  Ed Eddintou  dintou Eddintou  er  Eydereen,  Captain  Pengelly,  now  lying  at  the  :pure,  that  he  had  for  a  while  past  been  absent  on  leave  at  the  house  of  his  brother,  Mr  Johnson,  surgeon,  in  Mortimer-street,  Ca  4  vendish-square,  from  whence  he  came  away  on  the  Friday  afs  teruoon  to  join  his  ship,  and  having  sent  all  his  stock  dnwn,  he  :tad  borrowed  a  shirt,  in  which  he  died,  marked  F.  W.  front  his  brother.in-law,  Mr.  Frederick  %Ciliate,  of  brewer-street,  Gol Golden-square.  den-square. Golden-square.  It  is  understood,  hut  cannot  be  positively  . STYLE=superscript  ascers  tattled,  that  he  had  about  five  or  six  pounds  in  his  pocket,  that  he  was  a  man  of  great  personal  courage,  and  must  probably  ,  made  great.  resistance  when  attacked.  On  the  whole  of  the  case,  •  a  verdict  or  Wilful  Murder  against  persous  uukuowo,  was  taken•  and  returned.  1)1  }A).  Oa  Icednes&amp;ty  morning,  at  Grimsthorpe  Casile,'  his  Grace  the  T)uke  of  Anr:vter,  and  of  Kesteven,  :Marquis  and  'Earl  of  Lind Lindsey.  sey. Lindsey.  Dukedom  and  Marq:tisaie  ureurne  eatito-f,  brit  the  Earldnat  devolves  ou  Gener4l  Berrie,  Member  for  stainford.  Ou  Friday  la't,  the  infant  daughter  of  Lord  Milton,  at  his  souse  in  Arlingtou-street.  Friday  the  27  t  h  ult,  Mr.  H.  Gregory,  of  the  Woodhouses,  near  Frodiham.  I  is  a  very  singular  circumstance  that  he  dreamt  on  the  3d  he  should  not  v  live  24  days  longer,  and  three  dad,  before  his  death  lie  enluired  what  day  it  Wal,  and  being  told,  he  replied  As  time  was  not  then  cone,  hut  was  drawing  nigh,  and  be  ac.  tautly  cvpired  on  the  24th  day!  Ou  a  man  named  Turnbull.  in  Halifac  Workhouse,  The  day  previous  to  his  ti,vath,  he  scut  for  the  ini,  , STYLE=superscript  tresz,  and  gave  her  Ms  s  11iu  to  purcha,t.-  grave  clothes  at  his  dri-ew.  Soon  af,rr,  a  fellow  patipvr  requested  of  him  his  greatcoat,  hut  with  this  he  would  not  part  I  ailoat  three  &amp;deck  in  the  mornang  he  got  out  of  bed,  and  stripped  of  every  thing  be  then  wore,  and  wrapping  t  .  nisei  f  in  thi3garineut,  laid  down  and  ea  plied  On  Tnosdav  ie  . STYLE=superscript  nni4ht,  at  zNii.ckport.  at  the  advanced  aze  of  4r.  !trope  A  I•or!c,  late  of  tf.tisil  ford.,  Cheuhirr  n  Mail  must  levervedtv  respected  h,  a  ottinerous  circle  of•iirquaintances.  lie  :Iraq  tititer  to  15,  gran  ifather  to  91,  and  grealgrandf4ther  to  `2B,  making  a  torn!  I,f  134  PRI.Cg  STOCAS  YEsTLItUAY.  3  per  Cent.  Cons.  67*—Intli.:  Bonds  11,  12  pm.-4  per  Cent.  Con-.  S!-  *-3  per  Cent.  Reduced  66  //1-I.ong  Annultirt  181  1-16-01rniorn  piu.-I:xcli.  Kith  11,  14  ;wt.  —Lottery  Ticket.  £2l  10.--nolisol  l STYLE=superscript  /  4  for  Are:moo:64.  P16_TB00017 1111  P"
