text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  Tues,:ny,  A  pril  18.  Mr.  P.we,  alluaintr,  to  some  o!)Fervations  that  had  fallen  on  a  former  day  from  certain  Members  of  the  ifou  , STYLE=superscript  e,  and  to  an  opt opthlo  hlo opthlo  that  seemed  to  he  partially  entcrtained,,  that  the  manufac manufactares  tares manufactares  of  the  country  •  %yen•  on  the  tlecrealr,.oberved,  that  our  shipping  eltivlT;ea  to  the  diftl  , STYLE=superscript  rent  parts  of  America,  had  en encreasea  creasea encreasea  63,000  tons  doriwz  la,  t  year,  accottilug  to  a  statement  now  on  .:.table  of  the  Hou-e.  Mr.  s  e STYLE=superscript  -Moore  )I)4erved,  that  he  wa  - STYLE=superscript  s  not  pr-pareil  to  meet  orm  ilerano  on.  tl;  had  gtat  ea  for  thf.  prospet  ity  of  oar  titanuf•tetare.,  ly.:t  he  c.o;ltl  i;;fortn  him,  that  the  greater  part  e.);*  the  nvonifacturers  of  the  West  amt.  North  mere  half  stars  ing  with  their  families  for  want  of  employment.  SMITE;  ILIA)  11.11  1:T  r.  -  -  Fir  Charles  Pric  moved  the  order  of  the  day  for  the  second  reading  of  the  t;mithlield-Marizet  Rein;lv%l  Bill.  Mr.  Altleeman  Corube,  after  5  tatioc;  the  grounds  of  his  ohjec ohjectior.s  tior.s ohjectior.s  (a  the  measure,  moved  that  the  second  reading  be  post postpolled  polled postpolled  till  this  day  six  months.  .  Mr.  H.  Martin  seconded  the  amendment,  and  was  supported  by  'Mr.  Horner  and  Mr.  Lyttleton,  who  suggested  the  idea  of  two  mariiets.  Mr.  Ilutehin3on,  Mr.  Ponsatiby,  Mr.  Mellish,  Mr.  Fuller,  Mr.  Barham,  Mr.  Whitbread,  and  the  Attorney  Ceneral,  on  the  groutid'of  the  melsure  having  an  evident  ten tendent),  dent), tendent),  to  deteriorate  the  property  belonging  to  die  Orphan  Hos Hospital,  pital, Hospital,  and  all  the  private  property  in  the  vicinity  - STYLE=superscript  of  the  spot  1s  here  the  new  mar  ket  was  projeoed,  as  well  as  the  avenues  and  strtets  leading  to  it.  The  removal  of  the  market  from  Smith Smithfield  field Smithfield  v  nuld,  on  the  contrary,  render  property  less  valuable  also  in  triat  quarter.  Sir  Charter  Price,  Mr.  Rose,  and  Mr.  Alderman  Shaw,  sup supported  ported supported  the  Bill,  on  the  ground  of  the  necessity  of  removing  the  market  somewhere,  as  the  present  accommodatimr  was  by  no  means  adequate,  and  as,  from  the  crowded  state  • STYLE=superscript  of  the  market,  much  injury  was  sustained  by  the  cattle,  and  the  buyers  and  sellers  themselves  were  not  e  vein  pted  from  danger.  • STYLE=superscript  The'  ques.::  tion  being-  cacti  for,  thegallert  was  cleared;  but  the  amend  went  was  carded  without  a  division,  and  the  Bill  of  - STYLE=superscript  ceurte  . STYLE=superscript  thrown  out."
