text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  Channel  fleets,  would  compel  the  enemy  to  keep  an  armed  force  of  more  than  50,000  men  fur  the  defence  of  their  ex extensive  tensive extensive  line  of  coast.  The  ravages  the  enemy  have  com committed  mitted committed  in  Spain,  justify  the  principle  of  retaliation  ;  anti  it  is  of  the  most  urgent  necessity  to  make  the  Frent  feel  the  calamities  of  war.  While  their  property  and  per persons  sons persons  are  secure,  they  arc  perfectly  insensible  to  its  conti continuance;  nuance; continuance;  hut  as  soon  as'  their  rattle  are  iu  •  danger,  and  their  houses  exposed  to  plunder  and  conflagration,  their  loud  murmers  may  impose  some  restraint  or  the  wily  ambition  of  their  ferocious  tyrant.  We  abhor  the  Oen  of  augmenting  the  calamities  of  war;  but  humanity  may  bt  beuefitted  by  the  severe  and  vigorous  measures  we  have  re recommended.  commended. recommended.  A  number  of  reports  prevailed,  nod  were  received  with  avidity,  during  the  course  of  the  %era,  of  s.gual  sustained  by  the  enemy.  One  of  these  stated,  on  the  au authority  thority authority  of  a  letter  from  Vigo,  that  general  massacre  of  th,  French  had  taken  place  in  Madrid,  on  which  occasiui.  26,000  had  been  killed,  and  the  rest  forced  to  surrender.  Another  rumour  stated  a  great  victory  obtained  by  the  united  British  and  Spanish  armies,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  the  capital,  in  which  the  enemy  were  said  to  have  lobs  9000  men  killed  and  14,000  prisoners:  the  English  army  lc  ad  700  killed.  We  are  sorry  to  state  that  neither  of  these  reports  were  corroborated  by  subsequent  intelligence;  and  the  latest  advices  from  our  army  make  no  raentiqn  of  any  loch  occurrences.  We  feel  tbc  greatest  satisfaction,  how however,  ever, however,  in  stating  that  our  soldiers  enjoy  the  highest  degree  of  health  and  spirits,  and  breathe  the  most  ardent  desire  of  coming  speedily  into  contact  with  *enemy.  The  force  of  the  Marquis  na  LA  itomaise  was  receiving  every  day  new  ac accumulatiou  cumulatiou accumulatiou  of  strength,  and  at  the  date  of  the  last  dis  f  patches,  was  computed  At  30,000  serviceable  men.  Pursuant  to  the  extraordinary  powers  he  has  received  from  the  Su.  preine  Junta,  he  has  adopted  the  most  vigorous  measures  to  encrease  his  effective  strength,  and  to  form  immediately  an  army  of  Reserve..  His  operations  were  combined  in  concert  with  those  of  our  army  ;  and  whilst  the  British  troops  attacked  SQULT  in  one  direction,  he  was  expected  to  move  forward,  in  'Order  to  cut  off  the  possibility  of  a  retreat.  The  dictatorial  '►tilers  entrusted  to  him  in  this  emergency,  and  which  place  at  his  absolute  and  uncontrouled  disposal  the  population  and  resources  of  Old  Castile,  Leon,  Astu Asturias  rias Asturias  and  Gallicia,  promise  the  most  auspicious  consequences  to  the  patriotic  cause;  because  his  patriotism  and  energy,  together  with  his  detestation  of  the  invaders,  justify  us  to  presume,  that  his  zeal  and  prudeucewill  rise  with  the  exi exigency  gency exigency  of  the  times.  The  spirited  proclamation  he  has  published  on  the  occasion,  and  the  letter,  in  which  this  un unprecedented  precedented unprecedented  authority  is  deputed  to  him  .by  the  Supreme  Junta,  are  proofs  of  the  resolution  with  which  the  Pa Patriots  triots Patriots  intend  to  defend  their  country.  Lisbon  Papers  to  the  21st  ult.  arrived  onWednesdarlast:  they  were  brought  over  by  the  Niobe  frigate,  which  sailed  on  the  22d.  They  contain  some  very  interesting  news  . STYLE=superscript  from  Slain,  which,  as  they  are  communicated  in  an  official  forin,.  lay  strong  claims  to  our  belief.  PALAVOX  and  Saragossa  have  become  once  more  objects  of  our  admiratiim,  and  of  terror  to  the  invaders.  A  very  tarp'  corps  of  the  enemy,  consisting  of  15,000  infantry  and  :2000  cavalry,  made  a  vigorons  attack  on  Saragossa  on  the  tat  ult.  in  which  they  were  repulsed  .with  -considerable  loss.  They  renewed  the.  -  assault  three  successive  times,  and  with  equal  success.  i  airy  at  last  retreated  precipitately,  leaving  2000  dead  behind  them.  The  assailants  directed  their  principal  etlorts  against  the  bridge  of  the  canal  of  Arragun,  through  which  they  attempted  to  penetrate  into  the  town.  They  had  obtained  .iissession  of  it  three  times,  and  were  successfully  dislodged  by  the  intrepid  Arragunese.  The  Corps  of  IN  ET  are  sup supposed  posed supposed  to  have  been  engaged  on  the  occasion.  PALAs  ecor,  is  one  of  those  extraordinary  apparitions,  why,  ss  long  as  they  remain  on  the  scene,  maintain  un-  1 STYLE=superscript  impaired  the  hopes  of  their  country  e  and  h6r  situa situaii.:n  ii.:n situaii.:n  never  becomes  desperate.  The  present  crisis  in,  which  Spain  is  placed,  is  peculiarly  adapted  for  producing  -  a  number  of  such  characters  ;  and  the  proud  conscious  spirit  of  the  hero,  and  the  man  of  genius,  unshackled  by  :!le  formality  of  application,  and  the  nauseousness  of  pa pa!ronage,  !ronage, pa!ronage,  seizes,  as  his  right,  the  post  which  his  talents  and  •  courage  most  qualify  him  for.  The  Spanish  character,  exclusive  of  the  present  Occurrences,  so  favourable  to._  the  appearance  and  growth  of  uncommon  abilities,  is  of  that  dignified,  reserved,  and  most  romantic  kind,  which  en-  , STYLE=superscript  t  genders  enthusiasm  and  the  ardent  spirit  of  enterprize.  weighing  their  chances  of  success,  we  have  taken  thesdJ,  qualities  particularly  into  consideration  ;  and  no  people  love  more  ardently,  or  entertain  a  higher  opinion  of  their.)  country  than  the  Spanish.  141  ..jj  Al  4  I*S  The  enemy  has  favoured  us  with  three  additional  Butte-  •  tins,  which  were  sent  in  the  same  manner  as  the  three  / STYLE=superscript  for.  tiler.  They  were  found  in  an  open  boat  off  Boulogne,  'and  transmitted  to  government.  We  acknowledge  a  e  feel  no'  small  degree  of  pleasure  at  the  anxious  desire  the  tyrant  `  nanifests  to  impose  on,  or  dishearten,  the  government  '  and  public  of  this  country  by  means  of  these  Bulletins,  With  his  characteristic  impudence  and  falsehood,  he  has  not  been  able,  however,  to  invent  a  single  plausible  fact,  which  could  justify,  in  a  military  point  of  view,  the  trouble  of  writing  them.  In  this  sense  they  contain  no nothing  thing nothing  of  importance  but  the  surrender  of  Rosas;  the  truth  of  which  we  are  inclined  to  reject  absolutely.  He  knew  it  required  a  considerable  time  before  we  could  ascertain  •  whether  that  fortress  had  capitulated  ;  and  this  einbel einbellishment  lishment einbellishment  was  unquestionably  necessary  to  give  this  journal  the  appearance  of  a  military  one,  and  to  keep  up  an  ap-  , STYLE=superscript  pearance  of  his  being  able  to  execute  his  vaunted  menace  That  not  a  single  village  would  be  in  a  state  of  insur-'  rection,  nor  a  British  soldier  in  Spain,  at  the  expiration  of  last  These  Bulletins,  at  least,  do  not  contain  a  single  occurrence,  which  can  induce  us  to  believe  in  the,  possibility  of  the  execution,  even  at  the  expiration  of  the.  present  year.  They  still  represent  him  in  the  neighbour neighbourhood  hood neighbourhood  of  Madrid,  and  do  not  contain  a  word,  which  mignt  induce  us  to  believe  that  he  favoured  the  inhabitants  of  the  capital  with  the  honour  of  a  visit.  The  first  of  these  Bulletins,  the  17th  in  regular  succes succession,  sion, succession,  dated  Madrid,  Dec.  10th,  refers  only  to  reviews,  and  to  a  very  obscure  and  undetailed  account  of  some  success  which  the  Duke  of  IsstatA  obtained  over  which  covered  the  retreat  of  CASTANOS  . STYLE=superscript  army.  The  hitter,  in  the  :usual  style  of  French  depreciation,  is  stated  to  have  amount.:  'ed  to  nci  more  than  6000  men  ;  though  it  is  mentioned,  that  BESSIERES  )  in  attacking  the  corps,  which  coVezed  their  fli  ght,  took  1000  prisoners.  This  is  rather  a  con considerablei  siderablei considerablei  number;  considering  that  the  principal  corps  P9_TB00008 P9_TB00009 .  .  .  .  •  JAN.  S.  -  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  0.;  ~......-..  Channel  heels,  would  compel  the  enemy  to  keep  an  armed  assault  three  successive  times,  and  with  equal  success.  alley  force  of  more  than  50,000  men  fur  the  defence  Of  their  ex-  at  last  retreated  precipitately,  leaving  2000  dead  behind  tensive  hue  of  coast.  The  ravages  the  enemy  have  COM-  them.  The  assailants  directed  their  principal  edurts  against  miffed  in  Spain,  justify  the  principle  pf  reteliation  ;  env  the  bridge  of  the  canal  of  Arragun,  through  which  they  •  ,  it  is  of  the  most  urgent  necessity  to  make  the  Frenc!  ,  attempted  to  penetrate  into  the  town.  The  y  had  obtained  feel  the  calamities  of  war.  While  their  property  and  per-,  '  ..session  of  it  three  times,  an  d  were  succtssfully  dislodged  sons  are  secure,  they  arc  perfectly  insensible  to  its  coati-  by  the  intrepid  Arragunese.  The  temps  of  IN  ET  are  sup-  nuance  ;  hut  as  soon  as'  their  cattle  are  iu  •dan  g  er,  and  posed  to  have  been  is  ene,aecl  en  the  occasion.  PALAs  '  their  houses  exposed  to  plunder  ;nd  conflagration,  their  emr,  one  of  those  extraordinary  apparitions,  why,  / STYLE=superscript  loud  murmers  may  impose  some  restraint  or  the  win  •  1  •  •  d'i  long  as  they  remain  on  the  scene,  maintain  un-  ambition  of  their  ferocious  tyrant.  We  abhor  the  Om  pi  -  augmenting  the  calamities  of  war  ;  but  humanity  may  impaired  the  hopes  of  their  coun  t  ry;  and  her  sit  ua  -  be  •  benefitted  by  the  severe  and  vigorque  measures  we  have  re-  '  4.1.'n  never  becomes  desperate.  The  present  crisis  i  n  ,  commended.  .  which  Spate  is  placed,  is  peculiarly  adapted  for  producing  —.......  a  number  pf  such  characters  ;  and  the  proud  conscious  A  number  of  reports  prevailed,  and  were  received  with  s STYLE=superscript  p  ir STYLE=superscript  i  t STYLE=superscript  o STYLE=superscript  f  t STYLE=superscript  he  hero  , STYLE=superscript  and  the  man  of STYLE=superscript  g  enius, STYLE=superscript  u  n STYLE=superscript  shackled  by  ,  avidity,  during  the  course  of  the  meek,  of  cgual  revers..  :  :le  formality  of  application,  and  the  nauseousness  of  pa-  sustained  by  the  enemy.  One  of  these  stated,  on  the  au-  *renege,  seizes,  as  his  right,  the  post  which  his  talents  and  •  thority  of  a  letter  from  Vigo,  that  general  massacre  of  tin,  courage  most  qualify  him  for.  The  Spanish  character,  French  had  taken  place  in  Madrid,  on  which  occasiui.  exclusive  of  the  present  Occurrences,  so  favourable  to  _  I  26,000  had  been  killed,  and  the  rest  forced  to  surrender.  the  appearance  and  growth  of  uncommon  abilities,  is  oft  .  Another  rumour  stated  a  great  victory  obtained  by  the  ,  that  dignified,  reserved,  and  most  romantic  kind,  which  en-:t'  united  British  and  Spanish  armies,  in  the  neighbourhood  genders  enthusiasm  and  the  ardent  spirit  of  enterprize.  In  4 STYLE=superscript  ..  of  the  capital,  in  which  the  enemy  were  said  to  have  lobs  weighing  their  chances  of  success,  we  have  taken  thesej.  •  ~  9000  men  killed  and  14,000  prisoners:  the  English  army  qualities  particularly  into  consideration  ;  and  no  people  bad  700  killed.  We  are  sorry  to  state  that  neither  of  these  love  more  ardently,  or  entertain  a  higher  opinion  of  their.)  .  reports  were  corroborate  d  by  . STYLE=superscript  subsequent  intelligence  ;  and  coun  t  r  y  than  the  Spanish.  ,  ,41  —ow.  1.  ~  .:  a  the  latest  advices  from  our  army  make  no  mentiqa  of  any  _—.....--  .  -  !id  •  1,4  -4'  4  Avg  7  :  NI:  -  •  such  occurrences.  We  feel  the  greatest  satisfaction,  how-  ..  The  enemy  has  favoured  us  with  three  additional  Butte-  4 STYLE=superscript  ..  ever,  in  stating  that  our  soldiers  enjoy  the  highest  degree  ot  tins,  which  were  sent  in  the  same  manner  as  the  three  / STYLE=superscript  for.  r STYLE=superscript  .  •  health  and  spirits,  and  hreathe  the  most  ardent  desire  at  mer.  They  were  found  in  an  open  boat  offßoulogne,  'encl  ., STYLE=superscript  '  - STYLE=superscript  7,  ,  coming  speedily  into  contact  with  tile  enemy.  The  force  of  transmitted  to  government.  We  acknowledge  vie  feel  no  . STYLE=superscript  '  t STYLE=superscript  the  Marquis  na  LA  RoMANA  was  receiving  every  day  new  ac-  small  degree  of  pleasure  at  the  anxious  desire  the  tyrant'  rf  ...  cumulation  of  strength,  and  at  the  d  ate  of  the  last  dis  f  '  nan  if  ests  to  i  mpose  on,  or  di  s  h  earten  ,  t  h  e  government'  patches,  was  computed  at  30,000  serviceable  men.  Pursuant  and  public  of  this  country  by  means  of  these  Bulletins,  to  the  extraordinary  powers  he  has  received  from  the  Su.  With  his  characteristic  impudence  and  falsehood,  he  has..  preine  Junta,  he  has  adopted  the  most  vigorous  measures  to  not  been  able,  however,  to  invent  a  single  plausible  fact,  4 STYLE=superscript  encrease  his  effective  strength,  and  to  form  immediately  an  which  could  justify,  in  a  military  point  of  view,  the  i• STYLE=superscript  army  of  Reserve..  His  operations  were  combined  in  concert  trouble  of  writing  them.  In  this  sense  they  contain  no-  r STYLE=superscript  •  with  those  of  our  army  ;  and  whilst  the  British  troops  thing  of  importance  but  the  surrender  of  Roses;  the  truth  attacked  SQVLT  in  one  direction,  he  was  expected  to  move  of  which  we  are  inclined  to  reject  absolutely.  He  knew  ..  forward,  in  'Order  to  cut  off  the  possibility  of  a  retreat.  it  required  a  considerable  time  before  we  could  ascertain  •  The  dictatorial  ',tilers  entrusted  to  him  in  this  emergency,  whether  that  fortress  had  capitulated  ;  and  this  einbel-  and  which  place  at  his  absolute  and  uncontrouled  disposal  lishment  was  unquestionably  necessary  to  give  this  journal  the  population  and  resources  of  Old  Castile,  Leon,  Astu-  the  appearance  of  a  military  one,  and  to  keep  up  an  ap  7  ;  -  .  ries  and  Gallicia,  promise  the  most  auspicious  consequences  pearance  of  his  being  able  to  execute  his  vaunted  menace  to  the  patriotic  cause;  because  his  patriotism  and  energy,  ._....44  That  not  a  single  village  would  be  in  a  state  of  insu•  r-  1 STYLE=superscript  together  with  his  detestation  of  the  invaders,  justify  us  to  rection,  nor  a  British  soldier  in  Spain,  at  the  expiration  of  presume,  that  his  zeal  and  prudence  will  rise  with  the  exi-  last  These  Bulletins,  at  least,  do  not  contain  a  .  gency  of  the  times.  The  spirited  proclamation  he  has  single  occurrence,  which  can  induce  us  to  believe  in  the,  .  ..  published  on  the  occasion,  and  the  letter,  in  which  this  un-  possibility  of  the  execution,  even  at  the  expiration  of  the.  preceilented  authority  is  deputed  to  him  .by  the  Supreme STYLE=superscript  present  year.  They  still  represent  him  in  the  neighbour-  Junta,  are  proofs  of  the  resolution  with  which  the  Pa-  hood  of  Madrid,  and  do  not  contain  a  word,  which  might  t,'  ,  triots  intend  to  defend  their  country.  induce  us  to  believe  that  he  favoured  the  inhabitants  of  the  I  '  —  ow  .  capital  with  the  honour  of  a  visit.  Lisbon  Papers  to  the  21st  ult.  arrived  onWednesdarlast:  The  first  of  these  Bulletins,  the  17th  in  regular  siicces-  they  were  brought  over  by  the  Niobe  frigate,  wh  ich  sailed  sion,  dated  Madrid,  Dec.  10th,  refers  only  to  review  s,  and  on  the  22d.  They  contain  some  very  interesting  news'  from  ,  .  1  - STYLE=superscript  '  1 STYLE=superscript  to  a  very  obscure  and  undetailed  account  of  sinne  seeress  Spain,  which,  as  they  are  communicated  in  an  official  form,.  awhich  the  Duke  of  IfIsTRIA  obtained  over  e  cni  Fs,  wtoch  lay  strong  claims  to  our  belief.  PAt.&amp;l'ox  and  Saragossa  covered  the  retreat  of  CASTA  NOS'  army.  The  latter,  in  the  have  become  once  more  objects  of  our  admiration,  and  of  i  usual  style  ot  French  depreciation,  is  stated  to  have  amount-'  '  ed  to  mi  more  than  6000  men  ;  though  it  -is  mentioned,  terror  to  the  invaders.  Avery  large  c  9 STYLE=superscript  rps  of  the  enemy  , STYLE=superscript  consisting  of  15,000  infantry  and  :000  cavalry,  made  a  that  BESS.  ER  ES  )  in  attacking  the  cerps,  which  coVezed  vigorous  attack  ou  Saragossa  on  the  lit  ult.  in  which  they  their  flight,  took  1000  prisoners.  This  is  rather  a  coil-  Weft,  repulsed  :with  considerable  lose.  They  renewed  the.  .iiderable  number;  considering  that  the  principal  corps"
