text
"PRINCE  OF  WALES.  IT  is  pretty  generally  known,  that  his  Royal  Highness  George  Augustus  Frederick,  Prince  of  Wales,  was  born  on  the  twelfth  of  August  1762;  a  memorable  and,  perhaps,  remarkable  day— dayas  as dayas  the  anniversary  of  the  Accession  of  the  House  of  Brunswick  to  the  British  Throne.  lle  is  now,  therefore,  in  his  forty fortyseventh  seventh fortyseventh  year.  Many  difficulties  attend  the  delineation  of  the  characters  of  exalted  personages.  Such  characters  are  variously  estimated,  because,  conspicuously  as  they  seem  to  be  exhibited,.  they  are  often  very  imperfectly  understood.  It  is  in  this  predicament  that  we  arc  still  compelled  to  contemplate  the  heir-apparent  to  the  throne  of  our  country.  What  he  might  have  proved,  had  it  been  permitted  him,  about  the  year  1788,  to  take  an  efficient  part  in  the  ;2;overnment  of  this  tuition,  it  were  useless  now  to  imagine;  but  it  must  be  confessed,  as  it  ought  to  be  remem remembered,  bered, remembered,  that  the  present  Prince  of  Wales  has  not,  since  the  me-  Laichol  y  period  just  noticed,  met  v  its  any  opportunity  for  acting,  up  to  those  public  principles  which  lie  is  believed  to  have  cherished,  or  for  displaying  those  abilities  of  which  he  is  known  to  be  possessed.  His  laudable  spirit  of  emulation  has  been  checked,  and  repressed  ;  his  hopes  have  bees  excited,  only  to  he  disappointed  ;  and  his  patriotic  endeavours,  to  assume  the  station  becoming  his  rank  in  society,  have  only  subjected  him  to  mortifying  repulses,  and  an  absolute  veto  upon  his  most  digni dignified  fied dignified  proposal.  The  second  person  in  the  kingdom,  hint  to  whom  the  expectations  of  the  people  were  directed,  and  who  panted  for  nothing  so  much  as  to  justify  the  fund  opinion  en entertained  tertained entertained  of  him  by  his  countrymen,  he,  and  be  only,  seems  to  have  been  necessitated  to  make  his  amusements  his  occupation,  and  to  shrowd  himself  under  an  obscurity  with  which  he  is  gusted.  His  noble  demand,  during  the  year  ISO  3,  to  be  cm cmpowered  powered cmpowered  to  head  some  portiog  of  the  forces  of  his  country,  his  P2_TB00014 I"
