text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGPSTER.'  Collini.  After  a  miner  and  actres  s  of  suc  h  exce  ll  ence  as  eatalani,  the  task  was  uncommonly  arduous,  auttderaanded  po  small  degree  of  indulgence  from  the  public.  Madame  Collini  seemed  to  feel  the  difficulty  she  had  to  encounter,  and  her  manners  powerfully  influenced  the  spectators  in  her  favour.  This  first  itnpressioa  was  soon  ripened  into  favour,  for  she  displayed  very  superior  powers  both  of  Voice  and  action.  In  her  features  she  resembles  the  cap captivating  tivating captivating  Grassini,  and  her  tune  is  also  of  the  same  quality.  She  sung  with  ease,  clearness,  and  taste.  The  music  is  a  promising  specimen  of  the  master,  and  was  very  much  ap applauded.  plauded. applauded.  Naldi  was  received  with  the  warm  welcome  which  he  deserves;  for  his  comedy  is  a  high  treat  to  the  Connoisseur.  A  new  Divertisement  and  Ballet  displayed  the  strength  of  the  corps  of  Dancers.  We  have  had  no  suet  talenti  for  many  years.  Young  Vcstris  sprung  forward  with  all  the  power  and  activity  which  his  father  possessed  seventeen  years  ago;  and  the  same  astonishing  talent  seemed  to  be  revived  and  identified.  We  have  no  doubt  but  that  his  performance.  will  excite  the  same  furor.  It  is  really  won wonderful.  derful. wonderful.  The  force,  truth,  and  neatness  with  which  he  performs  his  movements  exceed  any  thing  that  we  have  seen  since  the  day  of  his  father—for  Des  Hayes  is  a  per performer  former performer  of  another  class.  The  graceful  attitude  and  air  of  the  one,  with  the  wonderful  execution  of  the  other,  will  compose  a  picture  perfect  in  its  kind.  The  house  was  in  a  paroxism  of  vociferation  in  the  pa:  de  deux  of  Vestris  and  his  partucr,  Mademoiselle  Angiolini.  She  is  extremely  elegant  in  her  figure,  petite,  but  finely  formed  ;  and  she  has  acquired  the  manner  of  Vestris.  Her  equilibrium  is  perfect.  She  •finishes  the  most  difficult  movement  with  truth  ;  and  her  posture  has  great  strength.  •  Certainly  since  the  first  year  of  Des  Hayes,  when  he  -had  also  Didelot  and  Rose,  we  have  had  no  such  Corps  de  Ballet  in  regard  to  riucipals  as  were  exhibited  last  night.  31  There  being  no  person  in  London  to  identify  him,  and  of  course  no  one  to  charge  him  with  felony  upon  oath,  he  could  not  be  committed  to  prison.  He  was,  therefore,  locked  up  In  a,  strongroom  in  the  Brown  Bear  publicAhnse,  lu  Bow-street.  —  Yesterday  morning,  he  said  he  Wanted  to  go  into  the  yard,  when  a  man,  the  servant  of  Mr.  Mazard,  the  landlord,  attended  him  as  usual.  When  be  was  about  to  return  Into  the  house  again,  he  suddenly  knocked  his  attendant  dawn,  and,  in  consequence  of  some  paling  which  separated  that  yard  from  the  butcher's,  the  house  adjoining,  there  was  a  free  and  uninterrupted  access  to  a  large  space  of  wattle  ground,  at  the  back-of  Russell-street.  w  hick  leads  into  a  narrow  court  in  Russell-street,  through  which  he  made  his  escape.  The  hue  and  cry  of  Stop  was  raised,  and  several  men  ran  in  ail  directions,  but  in  vain.  Just  after  the  escape  had  taken  place,  an  offiterarrised  from  Ediuburgh,  fur  the  purpose  of  ideatifying  his  person,  and  con.  veying  him  thither.  Some  evenings  ago,  the  Rising  Sun  public-house,  In  Suffolk*  street,  as  well  as  the  pot-boy,  narrowly  escaped  from  being  de destroyed  stroyed destroyed  by  tire.  The  landlord,  after  the  company  had  retired,  and  his  whole  family  had  gone  to  bed,  felt  a  strong  burning  smell.  After  a  minute  search,  be-  found  it  issued  from  the  bed bedroom  room bedroom  of  the  pot-boy.  On  bursting  open  the  door,  he  saw  the  bed  in  flames,  tt  hilst  the  boy  was  found  asleep  in  it.  With  great  exertions  he  succeeded  in  confining  the  flames  to  that  roots  only.  The  hay's  clothes  were  burnt,  but  himself  escaped.  The  tire  originated  from  the  unpardonable  practice  of  sticking  tite  candle  on  one  of  the  posts,  apd  the  boy's  falling  asleep  without  extinguishing  it.  A  fatal  accident  occurred  :on  Monday  night  to  Mrs.  }Ladino,  the  widow  of  a  mercantile  gentleman,  at  her  house;  in  fdatsb fdatsbplace  place fdatsbplace  New-road,  occasioned  by  her  ,clothes  taking  fire.—The  lady  ;tad  rettancd  bottle  from  a  Sisit  ret  twelve  St  night,  midmost  after  she  had  retired  to  her  bed-room:Are,  her  maid  servant  was  alarmed  by  her  shrieks,  and,  on  enteektg  the  reons,  Mrs.  B.  ap appeared  peared appeared  enveloped  in  flames.  The  servant,  in  her  state  of  alarm,  was  unable  to  taunt  immediate  relief,  but  she  insects&amp;  to  get  other  assistance,  and  in  the  interim  the  unfortunate  - STYLE=superscript  lady  wi  VIP  burnt,  that  she  died  on  Tuesday.—She  bad  on  a  cambric  drew.,  which  was  consumed  to  tinder.  Firat.Po,l  . STYLE=superscript  Fj.icr.—Two  men.  of  the  names  of  Monkey  ,and  Bartholomew,  the  former  an  upholsterer's  porter,  nod  the  latter  a  coackman,  having  had  a  pot,  s  houie  quarrel  in  Oxford  -street,  on  Saturday  night,  in  consequence  of.  the  coachman  having  pulled  the  porter's  nose,  they  repaired  to  a  spot  not  far  distant  to  fight;  a  sauguinary  battle  took  place,  each  being  inebriated  aid  - STYLE=superscript  tins  skilful  ;  and,  after  having  been  engaged  half  an  !tour  in  the  con contest,  test, contest,  the  coachman  receivd  a  fall  on  the  head,  which-  tertuistated  his  existence.  •  .  MARRIED.  AtVVanstead-house,  Essex,  his  Serene  Highness  the  Prineb  de  Conde,  to  her  Serene  highness  the  Princess  I)ownger  de  Monaco.  On  Monday  last,  at  Bath,  George  Rickards,  Es  j.  of  Char Charlotte-row,  lotte-row, Charlotte-row,  London,  to  Francas  second  daughter  of  the  late  Rev.  Dr.  Kettilby,  of  Sutton  in  the  county  of  Bedford.  Monday  se'llitight,  at  Beaminiter,  Dorset,  the  Rev.  William  Row  Holden,  A.  M.  Fellow  of  Worcester  College,  Oxford,  to  Miss  Evelcigh,  of  Bearginster.  DIED.  At  ten  o'clock  on  Monday  evening,  at  his  house.  in  Grafton Graftonstreet,  street, Graftonstreet,  the  Marquis  of  Sligo,  in  his  53d  year.  At  Bathvon  Sunday  last,  Lord  Gardner,  who  was  justly  cion•  sidered  atsvne  of  the-ornaments  of  the  British  Navy.  He  wa.  born  at  Uttoxeter,  iuStaffordshire,  and  was  in  his  661  h  year  His  father.  was  a  .Lieutenata-colunel  in  the  11th  Regitnent  of  Ltragoon  Gourds,  and  a  native  of  Coleraine,  in  the  North  of  Ireland.  Lord  Gardner  commenced  .his  Naval  career  on  the  Ist  of  May,.1755,  on  board  the  Medway,  of  60  guns,  commanded  by  Captain  Peter  Dennis;  he  was  in  that  ship  in  1757,  w  hen,  in  .corapany.  with  .the  Eagle,  they  took  the  Due  d'Aquitaine,  of  60  guns..  On  the  7th  of.  Marcia,  1760,  he  was  advanced  tb  a  Lieu Lieutenant,  tenant, Lieutenant,  and.appointed  to.  the  Beltoaa,  of  74  guns  ;  he  was  after afterwards  wards afterwards  in  nine  glorious  actions.  in  all  of  which  he  displayed'  courage,  skill,.and  magnanimity,  .He  married  in  the  year  1769,  Miss  Hide,  of  Jamaica,  mid  has.  left  by  her  ladyship,  who  sur survives  vives survives  him,  a  very  numerous  family,  iouluding  two  sons  in  the  Navy.  .  •  .  Sanday  se'neight,  at.,  his  house  at  Catisfield,  near  Fareham,  Rear-Admiral  Edward  013ryen,  who  so  gallantly  broke  the  line  when  commanding  the  Monarch,  in  the  memorable  action  of  Catgperdown.  Saturday  se'nuight,  at  his  hems.:  iq  Clifton,  Thomas  cieJdoei  t  M.D.  late  of  Pembroke  Colleget'llafort  P15_TB00006 JAN.  S.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.'  '..  31  1  4  ir—  ,  t.,'  r  .-..,  -  -  -  lamillealllga=  ;  I  Collini.  After  a  singer  and  actress  of  such  exce  ll  ence  as  Ther  e  b  e  i  ng  no  p  e  r  so  n  in  Lond  o  n  to  identify  him,  and  of  tatalani,  the  task  was  uncommonly  arduous,  auddemanded  •  course  no  one  to  charge  him  with  felony  upon  oath,  he  could  not  po  small  degree  of  indulgence  from  the  public.  Madame  be  committed  to  prison.  He  was,  therefore,  locked  up  In  a  Collini  seemed  to  feel  the  dif  f STYLE=superscript  iculty  she  had  to  encounter,  strong  room  in  the  Brown  Bear  public  Abase,  In  Bow-street.  —  and  her  manners  powerfully  influenced  the  spectators  in  J  Yesterday  morning,  he  said  he  wanted  to  go  into  the  yard,  when  a  man,  the  servant  of  Mr.  Mazard,  the  landlord,  attended  him  a  her  favour.  This  first  itnpressioa  was  so  o  n  ri  pe  n  ed  int  o  be  was  about  to  return  into  the  house  again.  favour,  for  .tae  displayed  very  superior  powers  both  of  he  s  a  s  u STYLE=superscript  u  s STYLE=superscript  d  u STYLE=superscript  de  l STYLE=superscript  n  . STYLE=superscript  I  y  Ih  knocked  his  attendant  duhrn,  an  d  4  in  consequenci  of  Voice  said  action.  In  her  features  she  resembles  the  cap-  some  pa  li  ng  which  separated  that  yard  from  the  butcher's,  the  tivating  Grassini,  and  her  tune  is  also  of  the  same  quality.  h  ouse  a  dj  o  i  n  i  ng  ,  t  h  ere  was  a  f  ree  an  d  uninterrupted  a  c  ce  s  s  to  a  She  sting  with  ease,  clearness,  and  taste.  The  music  is  a  large  space  of  wattle  ground,  at  the  bacit-of  Russell-street.  w  hick  promising  specimen  of  the  master,  and  was  very  much  ap-  leads  into  a  narrow  court  in  Russell-street,  thronsh  which  he  plauded.  Naldi  was  received  with  the  warm  welcome  made  his  escape.  The  hue  and  cry  of  Stop  thief  ' STYLE=superscript  was  raised,  k  which  he  deserves;  for  his  comedy  is  a  high  treat  to  the  and  several  men  ran  in  ail  dir  e STYLE=superscript  ct  i STYLE=superscript  on  s STYLE=superscript  , STYLE=superscript  but  in  vain.  r  Conpoisseur.  Just  after  the  escape  had  taken  place,  an  offiterarrised  from  Edinburgh,  fur  the  purpose  of  ideatifying  his  person,  and  con.  A  new  Divertisement  and  Ballet  displayed  the  strength  veving  him  thither.  1  - STYLE=superscript  '  A  ,  of  the  corps  of  Dancers.  We  have  had  no  suet'  taletiti  for  Some  evenings  ago,  the  Rising  Sun  public-house,  In  Suffolk.  '4  ;tunny  years.  Young  Vcstris  sprung  forward  with  all  the  street,  as  well  as  the  pot-boy,  narrowly  escaped  from  being  de-  power  and  activity  which  his  father  possessed  seventeen  stroyed  by  fire.  The  landlord,  after  the  company  had  retired,  years  ago;  and  the  same  astonishing  talent  seemed  to  be  and  his  whole  family  had  gone  to  bed,  felt  a  strong  burning  ,,,  revived  and  identified.  - STYLE=superscript  We  have  no  doubt  hut  that  his  smell. STYLE=superscript  After STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  minute STYLE=superscript  search, STYLE=superscript  be. STYLE=superscript  found STYLE=superscript  it STYLE=superscript  issued STYLE=superscript  from STYLE=superscript  the  ised-  performance.  trill  excite  the  same  furor.  It  is  really  w  room  of  the  pat-boy.  On  bursting  open  the  door,  he  saw  this  Iron-  bed  in  flames,  w  hilst  the  boy  vi  as  foetid  asleep  in  it.  With  derful.  The  force,  truth,  and  neatness  with  which  he  -  •  great  exertions  he  succeeded  in  con  fi  ning  the  flames  to  that  roots  I  performs  his  movements  exceed  any  thing  that  we  have  only.  The  hay's  clothes  were  burnt  but  himself  escaped.  The  seen  since  the  day  of  his  father—for  Des  Hayes  is  a  per-  fi  re  o  ri  g  i  na  t  e  d  f  rom  th  e  unpardonab  le  practice  of  sticking  the  '''‘  former  of  another  class.  The  graceful  attitude  and  air  candle  on  one  of  the  posts,  sind  the  boy's  falling  asleep  withosit  of  the  one,  with  the  wonderful  execution  of  the  other,  will  extinguishing  it.  I  ,  4  4  compose  a  picture  perfect  in  its  kind.  The  house  was  in  A  fatal  accident  occurred  :on  Monday  night  to  Mrs.  }Ladino,  a  paroxism  of  vociferation  in  the  pas  de  deux  of  Vestris  and  the  widow  of  a  mercantile  gentleman,  at  her  house;  in  fdatsb-  i:  his  partner,  Mademoiselle  Angiolini.  She  is  extremely  place,  s  ew-road,  occasioned  by  her  ,clothes  taking  fire.—The  lady  had  returitcd  bailie  front  a  tistt  Ili  twelve  St  night,  midmost  elegant  in  her  figure,  petite,  but  finely  formed  ;  and  she  after  she  had  retired  to  her  bed-room:fire,  her  maid  servant  wes  ..  has  acquired  the  manner  of  Vestris.  Her  equilibrium  is  alarmed  by  her  shrieks,  and,  on  enter,ing  the  rnotu,  Mrs.  R.  ap-  perfect.  She  •finishes  the  most  difficult  movement  with  penred  enveloped  In  flames.  floe  servant,  in  her  state  of  alarm,  l•  truth  ;  and  her  posture  has  great  strength.  •  Certainly  since  was  unable  to  afford  immediate  relief,  but  she  Isaacs&amp;  to  get  1  the  first  year  of  Des  Hayes,  when  he  -had  also  Didelot  and  other  assistance,  and  in  the  interim  the  unfortunate  - STYLE=superscript  Intl  , STYLE=superscript  was  VP  Rose,  we  have  had  no  such  Corps  de'  Ballet  in  regard  to  burnt,  that  she  died  on  Tuesday.—She  bad  on  a  cambric  dress,  riucipals  as  were  exhibited  last  night.  which  was  consumed  to  tinder.  Fi  TA  I.  P  coy  es.icr.—Two  men.  of  the  names  of  Malley  ,and  ..  _  .  .  Bartholomew,  the  former  an  upholsterer's  porter,  mid  the  latter  ACCIDENTS  AND  OFFENCES.  a STYLE=superscript  co STYLE=superscript  a  c STYLE=superscript  hm  an, STYLE=superscript  having  had  a  poti  s  house  quarrel  in  Oxford  -street,  on  Saturday  night,  in  consequence  of.  the  coachman  'having  pulled  .....,_  .  A  man  named  John  Taylor,  who  resides  in  Rose  and  crown-  .  I  the  porter's  time,  they  repaired  to  a  spot  not  far  di.stsuit  to  fight;  coun  t  ,  bloorfields,  appeared  before  the  Chief  Magistrate,  at  a  sauguinary  battle  took  place,  each  being  inebriated  isixtun-  Guildhall,  on  the  complaint  of  a  poor  widow,  who  lodged  in  his  skilful;  and,  after  havin.  , STYLE=superscript  been  engaged  half  an  hour  in  the  con-  house  for  a  considerable  time  past,  whose  - STYLE=superscript  goods  he  detained  for  test,  the  coachman  received  a  fall  on  the  head,  which  -terminated  Iss.  rent,  while  he  insisted  on  turning  her  out  of  doors.  his  existence.  •  .  The  circumstances  of  the  poor  woman's  case  were  peculiarly  .  -  hard.  - STYLE=superscript  She  *as  a  widow  with  five  small  children  :  one  child  had  recently  died,  and  She  had  a  sick  infant  at  her  breast,  of  AtWanstead-house,  Essex,  his  Serene  Highness  the  Prince  de  L  .  •  ,  iyhich  she  appeared  to  have  very  lately  lain  iii  After  collect-  -  L;onde,  to  her  Serene  Ilightwss  the  Princess  Downer  de  Monaco.  ing  the  few  last  shillings  she  couldraise  to  pay  the  undertaker  On  Monday  last,  at  Bath,  George  Rickards,  Esq.  of  Char-  the  funeral  charges  and  burial  fees.6f.  her  dead  child,  she  was  .  1  1  ate-row,  London,  to  Franc  as  second  daughter  of  the  late  14  still  short  of  3s.V.  for  which  her  humane  landlosdpassed  his  n  ..,  of  l  MondayKett,lhy,Suttonthe.Fur  se  'might,  at  Be.arniniter,  Dorset,  the  Rev.  William  three  Weeks  rent,  he  laid  aeembargo  on  the  remaining  chattels  Rose  Holden,  A.  M.  Fellow  of  Worcester  College,  Oxford,  to  of  the  wretched  widow,  at  the  moment  be.  gjected  her  as  an  in-  .  Miss  Eveleigh,  of  Beatujnster.  '  toTvent  tenant.  DIED.  The  Lord  Mayor  humanely  interposed,  and  iotreated  the  fellow  At  ten  o'clock  on  Monday  evening,  at  his  house.  in  Grafton-  1  to  have  some  consideration  for  the  poet.,  woman's  circumstances,  street,  the  Marquis  of  Sligo,  in  his  s'3d  year.  year.  and  offeied  to  give  him  half-a-g  uinea  from  his  own  pocket  in  coin-  At  Bathvon  Sunday  last,  Lord  Gardner,  who  was  justly  ctoo  ~  prnsation  for  his  claitn.  ButTaylor,,equakly  hard  of  heart  and  sidered  *same  of  the  ornaments  of  the  British  Navy.  He  wa.  hearing,  was  deaf  to  every  thing  short  of  his.fetl  demand,  and  horn  at  Uttoxeter,  in  Staffordshire,  and  was  in  his  66th  year  with  'an  iron  countenance  refused  all  compromise.  The  lourd  His  father.  was  a  .Lieutenata-colunel  in  the  11th  Regitnent  of  hiayok,  indignant  at  such  otkluraey  ih  the  heart  of  any  Being  in  Ltragoon  Guards,  and  a  native  of  Coleraine,  in  the  North  of  '.  the  shape  of  an  Englishman,.  gave  hint  the  moner,  but  descended.  Ireland.  Lord  Gardner  commenced  .his  Naval  career  on  the  (coin  the  Chair  of  Justice,  to  vociferate  in  his  ear  that  he  was  a  Ist  of  May,.1715,  on  board  the  Medway,  of  60  guns.  commanded  i  •  t  hard-hearted  fellow,  undeserving  of  the  comforts  of  a  home,  or  by  Captain  Peter  Dennis;  he  was  in  that  ship  in  1757,  it  hen,  in  !  a  place  in  humanized  society.  ••  .  .  company.  with  .the  Eagle,  they  took  the  Due  d'Aquitaine,  of  60  t  On  the  221  tilt.  Mr.  Rea.dreeeived  a  letter,  gun  s..  On  the  7th  of.  March,  1760,  he  was  advanced  tb  a  Lieu-  i  .  .  ..  stating  that  a  molt  desperaterobber,  orthe.uaute  of  .George  tenant,  and.ap  - STYLE=superscript  pointed  to.  the  Bellow,  of  74  guns;  he  was  after-  Ainslie,  had  made  his  escape  hula  ,that  city,  and  .  was  supposed  wards  in  nine  glorious  actions,  in  all  of  which  he  displayed  . STYLE=superscript  inn,  to  have  arrived  in  London.  The  letter  further  stated,.thet,  he  courage,  skilloind  magnanimity,  .  .  fle  married  in  the  year  1769,  had  a  brother  in  Loudon,  •  Wit°  waS  a  brass-founder,  but  in  Miss  Hide,  of  Jamaica,  god  has.  left  by  her  ladyship,  who  sur-  what  part  of  London  he  resided  was  not  known  ;  very  little  '  vives  him,  a  very  numerous  family,  iouluding  two  sons  hi  thy  i  more  information  was  given  of.binii  except  a  full  drcription  of  N  avy.  .  his  person.  -  ..  .  ...  ,  .  Sunday  se'neight,  at.,  his  house  at  Catisfield,  near  Forebrain,  Mr.  Read  communicated  this.  information  to'Salmon,  %Anon  ,  Rear-Admiral  Edward  O'Uryen,  who  so  gallantlli  broke  the  .  the  course  of  four  days,  traced  out  the  brother  t  aed  apprehended  line  when  commanding  the  Monarch,  in  the  memorable  action  of  George  Ainslie,  although  he  assumed  the  name  of  George  Ali-  Cantkperdown.  .  derson  since  his  arrival  in  London,  and  was  working  at  kis  trade  Saturda  y  .  .  se'nuight,  at  his  hons.  in  Clifton,  Thomas  tieJdoci  t  of  a  blacksitith,  fur  Messrs.  Moser  and  Ce.  M.D.  late  of  Pembroke  Coller,:gsford.  '  :'  •  •  .  !  ;  •  ."
