text
"POLITICAL  DISQUISITION.  NUMBER  SIXTY-FOUR.  ....gasimip...  THE  SPT!UT  OF  TILE  TIME;  AND  SOME  HINTS  TO  PRINCES  AND  THEIR  ADVISERS.  ---allow--  The  ivorst  and  the  most  obvious  evil  of  the  French  revolution  is,  that  it  has  considerably  undermined  the  confidence  anti  vene veneration  ration veneration  of  mankind  for  their  institutions  and  princes.  The  stabi stability  lity stability  of  governments  rests  exclusively  on  the  :respectful  attach attachments  ments attachments  they  inspire  :  as  soon  as  that  foundation  is  removed,  the  artificial  props  of  standing  armies,  a  vigilant  police,  and  the  geverest  legal  restrictions,  will  not  be  able  to  protect  them  a  moment  against  the  first  violent  passion  which  ruffles  the  com community.  munity. community.  They  are  torn  away  by  the  storm,  and  the  edifice  crumbles  to  pieces.  This  great  political  convulsion  has  left  another  fatal  conse consequence  quence consequence  behind  it.  It  wound  up  the  feelings  and  passions  of  mankind  to  too  high  a  tone  ;  and  the  ardour  of  enthusiasm  has  been  followed  by  the  frigid  indifference  of  scepticism  ;—the  ravings  of  the  fever,  as  soon  as  the  paroxism  was  over;  were  followed  by  langour  acd  stppefaction.  In  political,  as  in  phy physical,  sical, physical,  maladies  this  is,  unquestionably,  the  most  desperate  stage,  the  most  dangerous  symptom  of  the  disorder;  and  all  the  art  of  the  statesman  is  requisite  to  resuscitate,  by  gentle  stimula stimulative,  tive, stimulative,  the  community  to  a  sense  of  life  and  feeling.  These  phenomena  are  accompanied  by  signs  equally  alarming.  The  individuals,  whose  virtue  and  talents  should  aftbrd  a  remedy  to  these  complicated  evils,  display  a  degree  of  levity  and'  weak weakness  ness weakness  even  superior  to  the  danger  which  menaces  them  in  parti particular.  cular. particular.  In  this  tremendous  crisis,  the  higher  classes  are  the  mast  insensible  and  vitiated  part  of  the  social  body.  We  shrink  back  with  horror  and  disgust  from  fife  contemplation  of  their  low  and  groveling  vices  ;  and,  though  the  very  ground  they  stand  on  trembles  under  their  feet,  they  pursue,  with  insatiable  avidity,  the  same  despicable  gratifications  which  plunged  the  nobility  and  princes  of  the  continent  into  an  abyss  of  misery  and  ruin.  All  the  signs  which  preceded  revolutions  in  any  age  or  country,  accumulate  in  ours;  they  terrify  from  abroad;  they  multiply  at  home;  and  whilst  the  closest  confederacy  of  the  good  and  in intelligent  telligent intelligent  can  scarce  prevent  the  explosion,  those  who  pOSSebS  qualities  of  that  description,  remain  isolated  and  inactive,  or  encourage,  through  mistaken  heal,  and  misunderstood  patriotism„  the  very  evils  it  is  so  much  their  duty  and  interest  to  repress.  Men,  who  love  their  country,  look  *out  them  with  despon despondency;  dency; despondency;  they  find  nothing  to  encourage;  every  thing  to  depress.  On  the  one  side,  an  inexorable,  bold,  and  inveterate  enemy,  wielding  the  immense  resources  of  twenty  kingdoms,  and  sue sueported  ported sueported  by  great  genius,  greater  villainy,  and  more  intense  hatred,  is  preparing,  with  unremitting  perseverance,  to  accom accomplish  plish accomplish  our  destruction.  On  the  other,  our  own  vices  and  folly  are  labouring  incessantly  t  to  accelerate  au  event,  the  most  dis disastrous  astrous disastrous  that  ever  occurred  in  the  annals  of  the  world;—if  England,  that  last  mid  favourite  sojourn  of  liberty  and  laws.  stoop  to  a  ruthless  tyrant,  freedom  and  humanity  tly  from  our  distracted  hemisphere  f►►r  ever.  Our  primitive  manners  are  gone,  and  with  them  our  energy  and  love  of  country.  To  re-establish  them  in  a  soil,  where  they  formerly  shot  out  with  so  much  luxuriance,  they  must  be  re replanted,  planted, replanted,  and  nurtured  by  the  domestic  virtues.  As  soon  as  the  parental  and  conjugal  duties  are  revered  and  exercised  by  the  higher  classes,  the  lower  v  ill  imitate  the  example.  The  fo  t  riner  Lt.-3  . STYLE=superscript  0.  LAI.I."
