text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  11  P1_TB00003 r_,..  /  ........,Pris.  -al;  .4  ..  ing  t  4o4o.llutinii  anp  Lau*.  1  ....  .  .  ::  -. STYLE=superscript  1  - STYLE=superscript  7.17.!..  .,  ,_....._  •  •  NO.  60.  •  8U  N  DAY  FEB  RUARY  19,  1809.  •lt  ;  .  .1  PRICE  S  rig...  -  .  .  •_  v  ..  ...  .  .  .  _.  •  •  QVISITIOZit.  garb  and  manners  of  their  ancestors  , STYLE=superscript  their  minty  notions  S  PoLITICAI.  4  .PIS  aumpts=mapiri==  of  patriotism  ;  and,  in  assuming  the  vices  and  dress  of  li  SUMLIER.  FIrTY•EIGHT.  courtiers,  have  adopted  their  code  of  political  morality.  THE  DUKE  OF  YORK.  .  A  community  may  be  said  to  enjoy  the  !Amines  of  free-  dom,  when  every  member  composing  it  is  subject,  without  To  pander  to  the  lieehtious  appetites  of  a  Prince,  .and  to  convert  the  secret  of  his  vices  into  a  means  of  advancing  the  fortunes  of  a  family,  arc  denominated  disinterestedness,  honest  zeal,  and  attachment  to  the  person  of  the  So.  ereign.  ~  ,  PI  distinction  of  person,  office,  or  rank,  to  the  controul  ef  To  dishonour  the  profession  of  a  soldier.  to  change  the  the  law.  The  reverse  of  the  position  mast  be  admitted,  office  of  commander  into  that  of  army-broker,  to  employ  as  soon  as  certain  persons  are  permitted  to  arrogate  an  ex-  the  immense  •  patronage  of  the  military  establishturnt  for  emptiou  from  this  coercive  influence.  It  betrays,  there-  the  purpose  of  catering  to  the  extravagant  wants  of  a  pros•  fore,  an  excess  of  extravagance,  to  assert  that  .a  people  titute,  to  connive  at,  even  to  share,  during  time  years,  are  free,  when  the  persons  entrusted  with  the  management  the  infamous  traffic  she  carried  on,  to  riot  in  the  ahatuira-  1  of  their  affairs  may  be  guilty,  with  impunity,  of  the  ble  profits,  to  enable  her  to  live,  to  the  detriment  of  the  '  grossest  •ma!versations.  Were  men  instinctively  inclined  to  soldier  of  fortune  and  merit,  in  princely  magnificence,  act  .right,  laws  and  government  would  be  superfluous  ;  whilst  the  widow  and  orphan  children  of  the  fallen  hero  but  as  there  is  an  undeniable  tendency  to  render  the  inter-  are  left  to  pine  in  neglect  and  often  in  misery  t  these  are  eats  of  others  subservient  to  oar  awn  desires,  the  necessity  frailties  unworthy  of  animadversion,  and  undeserving  of  of  salutary  restrictions  was  soon  discovered;  'and  the  ex-  inquiry  1  i  :..  i  perience  of  their  general  utility  taught  mankind  by  degrees  Woe  to  the  country  whose  means  of  defence  are  en  - STYLE=superscript  to  revere  what  the  individual  submitted  to  at  first  with  re-  trusted  to  an  enervated  libertine,  to  a  senseless  debauchee  1  .  luctance.  In  ordinary  times,  when  no  danger  menaces  front  abroad.  .-e,  We  are  not  insensible  to  the  ridicule  we  incur,  in  pre-  and  the  people,  unoppressed  by  taxation,  and  unharrassed  .  tending,  in  our  age  and  country,  to  see  the  necessity  of  in-  by  military  l STYLE=superscript  e  vies, STYLE=superscript  see  in  their  government  only  all  object  t  ,  culeating  truths  which  are  coeval  with  she  very  existence  of  regular  government  ;  and  we  would  justly  merit  it,  parition,  so  .flagrant  a  violation  of  consistency:,  were  there  not  some  bold  and  shameless  men,  pretending  p  p  to,  and  assuming,  a  superiority  over  the  rest  of  their  fel-  of  their  veneration  and  attachment,  such  a  mo  nstrous STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  p  - STYLE=superscript  1  .  pro  alarm,  disgust,  and  , STYLE=superscript  ul:ivately,  tlis.iffect  uou!d  ito  .  But  when  the  state  is  weighed  down  by  oxt.:  , STYLE=superscript  ,i;ve  11:1;.dviiii  i  Sow  citizens,  who  plaiuly  evinced  a  disp4  mition  to  bring  into  of  every  description  , STYLE=superscript  w  hen STYLE=superscript  its STYLE=superscript  fortuees STYLE=superscript  ar STYLE=superscript  e  ,! STYLE=superscript  t  I  .,tri‘lil.;  , STYLE=superscript  :  'lk  disrepute  these  self-evident  maxims.  They  are  now  known  :  ,  the  balance  , STYLE=superscript  when  only  an STYLE=superscript  accidental STYLE=superscript  parti,  c  nliin  . STYLE=superscript  .,  &#34;'ilk  1  ,  -.I  r.  -  they  have  had  the  follY  tcr  betray  their  intentions;  and,  the  oppesite  scale,  when  vigorous  men  begin  to  (!-spoild,  happily  for  society,  their  imbecility  is  equhl  tq  their  want  and  minds  of  a  religious  cast  believe  to  atx:  a  visitatteu  of  principle.  In  their  miserable  jargon,  the  honest  citizen,  Heaven,  in  the  alarming  occurrences  of  our  time,  when  who  sincerely  and  disinterestedly  loves  the  government  of  the  ardent  patriot  and  the,  enlightened  statesman  vainly  afs  bis  country,  and  endeavours  to  render  it  an  object  of  ye-  feet  to  conceal  their  apprehensions,  when  the  vast  resource  aeration,  by  attempting  to  remove  its  abuses,  is  - STYLE=superscript  denomi-  of  a  continent  are  combined  for  its  destruction,  when  an  .  ,  noted  a  conspirator;  whilst  they  have  the  effrontery  to  in-  inveterate,  active,  intelligent  enemy,  at  the  head  of  the.  'innate  that  an.  adherence  to  thoSe  very  principles  which  mightiest  empire  ever  recorded  in  the  annals  of  the  world,  place,  the'  house  of  Brunswick  on  the  throne  of  Great  Bri-  and  s,vereign  arbiter  of  the  lives  and  fortunes  and  talents  _  .  fain,  evinces  an  hostility  to  that  ill  tastriens  latnilv.  Shame  of  its  immense  population,  has  conspired  against  its  cue!.  n:t  their  torpor,  Vil  their  Anti-British  .sentiments  1  Their  sure,  we  may  then  safely  pronounce,  if  so  revolting.  an  .  ~  slew-fang  - STYLE=superscript  led  doctrines  might  secommend  them  to  the  fa-  abuse  be  permitted  to  exist,  on  the  fate  of  that  devoted  ..  your  of  the  new  dynasty  of  the  Bonapattes  ;  for  similar  community.  ~  maxims  and  practices  have  paved  their  tray  to  the  thrones  To  quit,  however,  a  subject  which  can  interest  the  pub-  ,  of  the  Bourbons,  .  .  lie  of  this  country  only  as  .a  matter  o  f STYLE=superscript  m  ere STYLE=superscript  s STYLE=superscript  p  eculation, STYLE=superscript  .  .  These  observations  naturally  present  •thenlseivez  in  ad-  as-a  reference  to  disorders  which  have  subverted  sir  many  Yelling  to  the  motion  of  Mr..Wardie.  We  are  acquainted  kingdoms,  and  humbled  in  the  dust  so  .  many  powerful  dy-  •  I  ....  ~,  .  ~,  .  with  the  patriotism  and  disinterestedness  of  the  individuals  easties  on  the  Continent,  but  which,  we  trust,  can  never  -  •  who  chewed  an  aversion  to  the  investigation.  We  appre-  visit  us,  -or-endanger  oui•  safety  and  that  of  the  Illustrious  ciate  fully  their  motivesa  and  know  the  sentiments  of  the  House  of  Brunswick,  we  will  proceed  to  advert  to  the  public  on  the  line  of  conduct  they  have  pursued.  But  they  charges  against  the  Commander  in  Chief.  -  have  calculated  falsely  ;  the  alarm  of  Jac4inisrn  is  now  We  .acknowledge  we  are  among  those  who  glory  in  this  over,  and  all  their  cries,  hypocrisy,  and  contortions,  will  investigation.  The  Commons  of  Great  Britain  have  now  an  •  not  convince  the  people  of  this  country  that  the  state  is  opportunity  oftppearinz  in  the  exalted  character  of  a  Ro-  in  d  ang  e  r,'  because  some  attempts  are  made  to  reform  its  .  -  •  the  •  lversal;ona  of  a  VERRI:s  ;Or  man  Senate,  examining  tna  ..  .  .  .  abuses.  in  the  light  of  a  certain  assembly,  alluded  to  by  the  Ulus-  ,  How  opinion  varies  he  the  course  of  a  century  1  The  trious  Dean  of-St.  Patrick.  We  arc  far  from  pronontica.7  present  generation  seem  to  have  cast  off  , STYLE=superscript  with  the  simple  udgment  on  the  Duke  of  York,  or  even  insa:eating  thaw  •  Pal.  11.--Na.  LX.  i  ~  TIIE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  1'  122  writing?  A.  There  appears  a  strong  similarity  in  it  to  the  Duke's  writing,  bnt  I  cannot  speak  with  certainty-  to  it,  as  his  Signature  is  not  attached  to  the  note.  General  Brnwnrig  was  called  in  again  and  examined  by  Mr.  GREEN  HILL—Q.  If  you  had  not  been  in  the  House  of  Com Commons  mons Commons  last  night,  should  you  have  had  any  doubt  of  the  short  note  beinfr  in  the  Duke's  hand-writing?  A.  Certainly  I  should,  because  I  not  think  it  very  like  his  writing.  Mr.  Adams  examined  by  the  Cti  A  NCELLOR  of  the  Exctiv.  Quen---Q.  What  is  your  opinion  of  the  hand-writing  of  the  00'1  note?  A.  I  think  it  very  like  the  Duke  of  York's.  But  1  cannot  positively  say  more  than  that---Q.  Are  th  ose  (the  long  letter:)  in  the  hand  writing  of  the  Duke  of  York  ?  A.  This  let letter,  ter, letter,  dated  San:lgate,  is,  in  my  opinion,  the  hand  writing  of  the  Dzike  of  I  entertain  the  same  opinion  respecting  this,  dated  Wf-ytnouth,  as  with  regard  to  the  last---Q.  Do  you  mean  to  state  mare  positively  of  the  letters  than  with  respect  to  the  note  ?  A.  I  do.  _  Lxamined  by  Mr.  WESTERN--•Q.  Did  the  Duke  of  York  re represent  present represent  the  note  to  you  iu  the  same  light  that  he  did  to  Colonel  Gordon  ?  A.  When  l  first  made  the  communication  to  the  Duke  of  York  on  Saturday  the  4th  of  lebruar,•,  he  declared,  without  hesitation,  that  he  had  no  recollection  whatever  of  such  a  note,  and  that  it  mast  be  a  forgery.  When  I  went  with  him,  on  the  same  evening,,  to  Mr.  Perceval's  house,  he  made  an  asseveration  precisely  to  the  same  effect;  and  afterwards,  when  I  went  from  Mr.  Percetal'4  to  Cohort  Gordon's,  he  made  a  similar  assertion  to  that  w  hick  Colonel  Gorden  has  given  in  evidence.  Nlr.  Toume,  of  Bond-  , STYLE=superscript  areet,  examine  by  Mr.  P  cftc  r.v  The  wita  , STYLE=superscript  .ss  is  a  Jew---Q,  Do  you  recollect  having  heard  Mrs.  Clarke  say  any  thing  rewectinA  bud-writing;?  A.  Yes.  In  the  course  of  conversation  she  said  could  brae  the  Duke  of  Yorl's  hand-writing—that  she  had  frequently  done  it.  She  did  so  then,  having  previously  shown  me  Ihe  Duke  of  York's  name  in  his  own  hand-writing,  and  I  could  not  tell  the  diNcrence  bet  ween  the  forgery  and  the  original---Q.  What  were  the  siord  , STYLE=superscript  which  you  observed  to  compose  the  Duke's  signature?  A.  S:ue  observed  that  the  Doke  signed  his  name  three  ways,  Frederick,  York,  and  Albany.  Which  of  the  three  it  was  I  cannot  possi possibly  bly possibly  say,  I  think  it  was  in  one  or  other  of  them.  :►IRS.  CLARKE'S  STIPEND.  The  CHANCELLOR  or  the  ExcHEQuea  rose  and  said,  that  a  question  having  been  put  to  him  some  nights  ago,  by  an  lion.  Member  behind  him,  with  respect  to  what  was  the  actual  allowance  Oven  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  by  the  Duke  of  York.  fur  her  mainteuance,  that  having  examined  his  Banker's  book,  the  actual  sum  advanced  to  that  lady  by  drafts  amounted  to  5,530/.  His  Royal  llighness,  however,  authorized  him  to  say,  that  he  bad  advanced  her,  independent  of  this,  very  large  sums  of  money,  which  he  never  took  any  account  of,  nor  had  he  any  document  by  which  he  could  inform  the  House  of  the  actual  amount.  There  were,  independent  of  this,  large  sums  of  money  paid  by  his  Royal  highness  to  Mrs.  Clarke  for  house,  furniture,  plate,  &amp;c.  &amp;c.  provided  for  her,  which  together  with  the  above  mentioned  sum  of  5,550/.  amounted  to  16,751!.  In  support  of  the  statement,  the  Right  lion.  Gentleman  observed  that  the  Bankers  books  were  ready  to  he  adduced,  as  was  also  the  testimony  of  the  tradesman  who  furnished  the  goods  in  question  to  Mrs.  Clarke.  These  were  the  facts  which  he  thought  it  ne necessary  cessary necessary  to  communicate  for  the  information  of  the  committee,  as  well  to  correct  an  erroneous  impression  that  had  gone  abroad  with  respect  to  the  amount  of  the  money  paid  by  his  Royal  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  and  he  trusted  that  it  would  have  that  giving  a  more  just  notion  of  the  conduct  of  his  Royal  toward  this  lady,  than  seemed  to  be  possessed  by  this  or,LER  asked,  what  the  public  could  wish  to  know  more,  the  whole  of  the  sum  named  by  the  Right  Hon.  Gentle Gentlemot.  mot. Gentlemot.  had  been  paid  t•  that  baggage  (  a  loud  laugh)  in  the  If  two  years.  The  Honourable  Member  was  prevented  .oceeding,  by  crie3  of  order,  order,  from  all  parts  of  the  V  A  ROLE  then  moved  that  Mrs.  Clarke  should  be  called  Ify  the  letters  found  in  the  bureau  of  Captain  Huxley  which  were  referred  on  the  last  evening  to  a  Secret  ee.  _  _  Clarke  deposed  that  the  papers  No.  1  to  41,  were  in  her  -iting,  and  that  No.  42  was  piece  of  a  letter  from  the  York,  which  had  come  front  Dover,  and  addressed  to  Farqnhar,  Esq.  and  had  the  same  seal  affixed  to  it  that  he  note  shewn  to  Major  Tonyn.  tt:rs  generally  concluded  with  an  injunction  that  they  destroyed  ma  as  read.  .  FEB.  17  Captain  Huxley  Sandon  brought  to  the  bar  by  the  Serjeant  at  Arms,  and  examined  by  Lord  FOLKS.TON  E.—Q.  The  last  even evening  ing evening  you  were  examined  at  the-bar  hf  this  House,  Jxhy  did  you  not  mention  the  note  which  you  knew  was  in  your  possession  ?  A.  I  really  am  so  ashamed  of  myself,  I  know  not  what  answer  to  make,  but  I  hope  the  House  will  pardon  me.—Q.  What  mo motive  tive motive  or  inducement  had  you  for  not  mentioning  that  note  when  you  were  first  examined  at  the  bar?  A.  I  really  had  no  mo motive.  tive. motive.  (The  prisoner  ordered  to  withdraw.)  -  .  .  The  CHANCELLOR  of  the  EXCHEQUER.  wished  to  be  in informed,  formed, informed,  whether  the  Hon.  Gentleman  on  the  other  side  of  the  House  had  any  more  evidence  to  produce.  .  3  -  •  .  Mr.  W  A  Rnt.iJ  replied  he  had  not.  The  CHANCELLOR  of  the  EXCHEQUER  then  expressed  his hisopinion,  opinion, hisopinion,  that  from  the  mass  of  new  matter  laid  on  the  table  this  evening,.  he  thought  it  wouldhe  prudent  that  .the  Committee  should  for  the  present  adjourn  :  and  move  for  leave  to  sit  again,.  as  in  all  probability  solne.ttiw  points  might  be  discovered  from  ...  the  letters  produced,  which  'inight  c  tend  further  to  elucidate  the  il STYLE=superscript  matter  in  question.  .  .  •  :-  .  '  The  Committee  then  adjourned  tlll  Monday.  .  •-  s•  '  •  ..  .  Captain  Huxley  Sandon  Was  remanOd  -bacg•  •Iftsliafer  • STYLE=superscript  i  z  The  CHANCELLOR  .%  cm  0f  the  .  EXCHEQVEVi  the  sug suggestion  gestion suggestion  of  an  H.  Gentleman'  beside,  e.  jliqi,(M.  ert`:stird),  as  well  as  from  the  opinion  of  .ottferlion  c  Gentlenran,.  that,  tm  a  minute  examination  of  the  note  by  Captain  auxley  Sandon,  and  tie  Duke  of  York's  letters,  there  appearedt.to  be  some  variation.  He  therefore  R  ro.po  t  ed  4  that  •  the  popers.which  had  been  produced  to  the  House,  .tog•ethei  with  thenote  and  O  K  Duke  of  York's  letter,  should;  . STYLE=superscript  beforeithe  House  adjourned,  be  locked  up'  in  a  box  prepared'  for  that*Purpose,•and.  that  some  persons  conversant  with  compfriog  hand-writiugs;  from  the  Post-office,  Bank,  and  otherPublit4  .  ollices,  - STYLE=superscript  .'direcled  lo  attend  and  examine  th  e  saiti  , STYLE=superscript  papers,  ll'uifier  7 STYLE=superscript  that  they  tniglit  give  their  opinion  as  to  - STYLE=superscript  the  of  the  !lore  in  question  being  a  fin--  gery  ;  this  proptisititin  tiffs  ggreed.to,.and  it  was  ordered  that  persons  conversant  in  Makineatmp:trisons  of  writing,  on  receiv receivin4  in4 receivin4  an  order  from  the  SpeakeC,  - STYLE=superscript  *s:Nnula  he  suffered  to  examine  the  said  papers,  between  the  hours  of  10  and  4  o'clock,  each  day  previous  to  Monday  nextdjourned.  TUESDAY'S  LONDON  GAZETTE.  BANKRUPTCY  SUPERSEDED.  T.  Willis,  Bath,  carpenter.  BANKRUPTS.  T.  Scott,  sen.  T.  Scott,  jun.  and  D.  Scott,  Carthorpe,  York,  shire,  grocers,  to  surrender  Feb.  18.  March  1,  and  28,  at  eleven,  at  the  Oak  Tree,  Leeming-lane,  York.  .Attornies,  Mr.  Rig;,  Northallerton,  Yorkshire  ;  and  Messrs.  Lodington  and  Ball,  Temple.  W.  Row,  St.  Peter's  Quay,  Northumberland,  ship-builder,  Feb.  27,  Match  6,  and  28,  at  eleven;  at  the  Shakspeare  Tavern,  Newcastle-upon-Tyne.  Attornies  ,  Mr.  Atkinson,  Chancery Chancerylane  lane Chancerylane  London  ;  and  Mr.  Bainbridge,  Newcastle-upon-Tyne.  Chancery Chancerylane,  lane, Chancerylane,  Taylor,  J.  Latham,  and  E.  Belcher,  of  Liverpool,  mer merchants,  chants, merchants,  March  2,  3,  and  28,  at  eleven,  at  the  Crown  and  Anchor  Tavern,  Bold-street,  Liverpool.  Attornies,  Mr.  Keightley,  or  Mr.  Orrell,  Liverpool  ;  and  Messrs.  Cooper  and  Lowe,  South Southampton-buildings,  ampton-buildings, Southampton-buildings,  London.  W.  Choyce,  Coventry,  innkeeper,  Feb.  23,  24,  and  March  28,  at  eleven,  at  the  Bull  Inn,  Nuneaton,  Warwickshire.  At Attornies,  tornies, Attornies,  Messrs.  Tebbutt  and  Shuttlewortli,  Gray's  Imi-square,  London  ;  and  Mr.  Cropper,  Market  'Bosworth,  Leicestershire.  J.  and  J.  Webster,  Wakefield,  Yorkshire,  cornfaetor,  Feb.  28,  at  six,  March  1,  and  28,  at  eleven,  at  the  Stallbrd's  Arms  Inn,  Wakefield.  Attoruies,  Mr.  Evans,  Hatton-Garden,  Lon London  don London  ;  and  Mr.  Beaver,  Wakefield.  S.  Knight.  Whitt,  Cross-street,  cloth-factor,  Feb.  18,  March  4,  and  28,  at  twelve,at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  V  izard,  New Newsquare,  square, Newsquare,  Lincoln's-  Inn.  •  J.  Atkinson,  Cleveley-Mill,  Lancashire,  miller,  March  at  four,  9,  at  eleven,  and  28,  at  four,  at  the  Commercial  Inn,  Lan Lancaster.  caster. Lancaster.  Attornies,  Mr.  Parker,  Lancaster;  and  Messrs.  Ca Caton  ton Caton  and  Brumell,  Aldersgate-street,  London.  T.  Stenner,  Bristol,  carpenter,  Feb.  16,  28,  and  March  28,  at  eleven,  at  the  Bush  Tavern,  Corn-street,  Bristol.  Attornies,  Messrs.  Bush  and  Prideaux,  St.  John-street,  Bristol;  and  Messrs:  Bleasdale,  Alexander,  and  Holme,  New  Intl,  London.  D.  Jenkins,  Lantrissant,  Glamorganshire,  linen-diaper,  Feb:  27,  28,  and  M  arch  28,  at  eleven,  at  the  Bush  Tama,  Bristol.  Attoruies,  Mr:  James  )  Gray's  lun-square,  London;  and  Mr.  Cooke,  Bristol.  •  '.',  ••  •  t  ~:.  .A  ]  P10_TB00021 effect  of  Highness  ouse.  31r.  Fu  than  that  atan,  16,C  course  of  from  pro  bouse,  Mr.  W'  in  to  veri  Sandon,  Committm  C  band-  w  ri  I).tke  of  Ccorge  Is  as  to  th  fhe  le  should  be  •  •  P10_TB00022 L_"
