text
"ERFURTH  COERESPONDENCE.  Mr.  Secretary  CANNING  rose,  .t;4  move  an  Address  to  his  Ma Majesty  jesty Majesty  on  the  subject  the  Erfurt  h  propositions,  relative  to  the  opening  of  a  Negociation  for  Peace.  Whatever  doubts  then:  might  be  as  to  the  propriet:,  i4f  the  steps  taken  by  the  Govermnem  in  conducting  this  transaction,  110  one,  he  was  convinced  would  rise  and  say  that  if  it  had  been  other,vise  conducted  the  result  would  be  negociat  ion  or  peace.  Ile  thought  it  the  duty  of  Govern Government  ment Government  to  ascertain,  beyond  the  possibility  of  a  doubt,  v.-  hat  were  the  real  intentions  of  the  enemy.  He  and  his  *Colleagues  pro-  posed  to  themselves  two  objects  :  first,  to  obtain  a  result,  which  would  make  the  intentions  of  the  enemy  manifest  to  all  the  world  ;  and  secondly,  to  bring  the  matter  speedily  to  a  point,  and  meet  the  propositions  in  a  way  that  could  not  lead  to  many  communications;  but  that,  if  possible,  the  first  should  be  (loci (locitive.  tive. (locitive.  It  was  thought  that  the  evacuation  of  Spain  by  the  Flinch  troops,  and  tile  restoration  of  the  Spauish  Royal  Family,  ought  to  be  made  conditions  of  entering  upon  a  Negociation—and  he  agreed  with  those  who  thought  so,  in  point  of  moral  feeling.  —  Yet  in  the  situation  in  which  he  and  his  Colleagues  stood,  be  thought  that  they  were  bound  _to  rest  upon  other  principles,  had  it  did.  not  occur  to  him  that  tfiey  had  any  political  right  to  demand  this  atonement,  and  that  there  was  no  precedent  in  his-'  tory  to  authorize  their  to  break  off  upon  these  grounds,  and  '  though  he  confessed,  that  in  doing  so,  they  would  stand  upon  a  high  and  splendid  fuundat  on,  yet  he  did  not  think  that  any  risk  ought  to  he  ran  Sacrifscing  the  real  interests  of  the  country.  It  was  the  duty  of  his  Majesty's  Government  to  ascertain  the  real  intentions  of  France—not  only  'so  as  to  satisfy  thetmelves,  but  to  satisfy  all  mankind  that  _there  was  no  „chance  of  a  favuut-  .  aide  result.  '  But  the  &amp;maul  he  - STYLE=superscript  and  his  Colleagues  were  bound  to  make  wat,lliat  Spain•should  be  admitted  a  party  to  the  Negociation,  and  allowed  to  state  its  own  demands,  by  which  a  fUll  .opportunity  would  be  afforded  of  claiming  for  her  that  •to  .  which  she  was  Justly  entitled.  Noiv,  it  was  not  asked  that  Prince  Ferdinand  should  be  restored,  but  that  the  Government-de  facto,  should  be  admitted  as  a  pat  ty.  It  was  not,  only  as  a  phta,e,but  in  the  foil  meaning  that  the  lan  guage  and  the  hope  conveyed  thai  his  Majesty  i  servants  had,  in  the  Ueclarationof  their  Sovereign,  commu  nicated  to  the  Court  of,  St.  Petersburgh  their  confidence'  the  example  of  Spain,  in'  consequence  of  the  unjustifiable  aggression  agttirisf  its  indepen independe.ice,  de.ice, independe.ice,  would  arouse  Rusgia  froth  its  unaccountable  * STYLE=superscript  and  dans  gerous  subserviency  to'the  kheini.i  •of  the  French  Ruler.'  1  bad  been  stated  that  the  introduction  of'Spain  as  a  prOimi•  •  •  necessarily  produlcett.  the  &amp;olive  Of  the  B  hi  di,  aler  nf  Fr  itan&amp;  P5_TB00017 had  been  staters  tow.  Li...  ....•••-_______  nary,  necessarily  produted.the  negative  of  the  Rifler  Of  France  ;  1  , STYLE=superscript  11154.7  .i.  ---------- STYLE=superscript  0•  that  it  was  ftnpossible  that  h  e, STYLE=superscript  consistent STYLE=superscript  with  his  dignit%  ,  .  li  e  maint:Ained  tho  proper  cours  e STYLE=superscript  would STYLE=superscript  have  been  to  oner  ire.  .._  ,  iodation  to  Frauet•  when  the  revolution  first  broke  - STYLE=superscript  oak  in  Spout;  ..  •  could  subsequently  accede  to  the  continuance  of  a  nfOciation  ;  .and  while  the  people  called  for  Periliiiand  Vil.  they  also  c‘tiled'-.'  ..- STYLE=superscript  !.:  but,  %VAS  it  not  possible  to  have  admitted  the  •  government  of  Spain,  acting  in  the  name  of  ,Fertlinand  the  Sei  r STYLE=superscript  en  tli, STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  the  for  the  annelioratioo  of  their  horrikliovernment,  to  whicb  they  ~+  ,  •  .%  negociation,  as  a  'government  de  facto,  whilst  4w  could  have  iir•  owed  all  their  misery.  lie  did  not  require  Mitristers  lo'abandms.  - STYLE=superscript  •  '.  -  •  •5  pain,  but  i  f  they  wished  g  peace  they  inuta  behave  to  Bonaparte;  cluded  the  claim  of  his  brother  oas  the  government  de  jur  'ro  this  position,.  justitied  Joseph'  tame,p  in  'history  and  who  was  at  the  head  of  the  greateat  in STYLE=superscript  they  ever  SIOV  w  ,  by  the  particular  situatioa  o  f  Sgain,  what  was  the  air-wer  re-  iii  a  decorous  manner.  As  for  Bonaparte's  Message  to  thttlesido.  ._.....  turned  by  the  Minister  - STYLE=superscript  of  'Burlap:int?  That  he  never  would  tive  Body  it  alfordedno  defence  far  this  note,  as  it  could  uot  be  witte  d STYLE=superscript  any  claim  of  the  Spanishpeople,sbecallse  they  were  wit  known  when  it,  Wasdispatched  ;  and  at  all  )  rate  it  was  not  to  State  of  rebellion.  And  'when  'this  country  p  r  essed  u  ptiu  he  be  . STYLE=superscript  argiseo  upon  Rh  many  siutliar  .  deelartions  had  in  the  knifes  Clovriaroeot  the  iutete,sts  of  •,Spaiu,  •  what  41111 cUatue  or.  aeouttattna  been  receded  from  by  all  pattios:  —Ai  •  .  ...,  ~  •  •  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  ...  ..  .  .  .  .  .  '  •  i  .0"
