text
"JAN.  1.  Greyhound  Inn  (where  they  had  been  to  pay  their  rent),  and  but  for  the  timely  help  and  humanity  of  Mr.  Chapman,  would,  in  all.prohability,  have  periibed,  as  they  were  on  horseback,  and  within  thirty  of  a  very  deep  pit  full  of  snow.  yards  DARING  Ro  - STYLE=superscript  aliERY.—On  Monday  evening  last,  about  seven  o'clock,  as  John  Liddle,  carrier  between  Haw  ick  and  Carlisle,  was  on  the  way  to  the  former  place,  a  man  came  up  to  him  on  the  road,  near  Brans  holm,  and  seizing  him  forcibly  by  the  throat,  gave  a  signal,  when  an  accomplice  instantly  appeared,  who  presented  a  pistol  at  him.  Liddle  endeavouring  to  knock  it  from  the  villain's  hand,  struck  at  it,  upon  which  the  robbers  threw  him  down,  bound  him,  and  carrying  him  into  an  adjacent  planta plantation,  tion, plantation,  tied  him  up  to  a  tree,  when  they  robbed  him  of  a  parcel,  containing  about  1001.  in  bank-notes,  and  also  of  151.  his  own  property.  Liddle  was  found,  by  some  people  who  heard  his  cries,  forty  minutes  after  the  robbery,  nearly  exhausted  with  cold  and  pain,  the  villains  had  tied  him  in  such  a  position,  that  only  his  toes  could  reach  the  ground.  On  Wednesday  evening,  near  seven  o'clock,  as  Mr.  Robert  Jackson,  pilot,  of  th•  Bull  Inn.  Stepney,  was  returning  home  from  Hull,  he  was  joined,  a  little  beyond  Spring-row,  by  a  man,  who,  after  walking  with  him  a  little  way,  knocked  him  down  with  a  bludgeon,  as  he  supposed.  Mr.  Jackson  cried  out  4  murder  the  man  retreated  from  him  a  few  yards;  and  some  persons  at  no  great  distance  repeating  the  cry  of  he  hastily  ran  off,  and  threw  himself  into  the  ditch  among  the  snow.  Mr.  Jackson  got  up  and  followed  him,  and  on  his  coming  up  to  the  spot,  stopping  near  it  a  short  time,  the  man  jumped  up  and  asked  w  hat  he  was  making  a  noise  about  ?  Mr.  Jackson  said  he  had  been  knocked  down,  and  asked  him  to  assist  in  pur pursuing  suing pursuing  the  assailant.  This  he  apparently  consented  to  do,  and  on  coming  up  to  some  persons,  who  were  drawn  to  the  spot  by  the  noise,  Mr.  J.  seized  the  man,  and  charged  him  with  the  assault.  On  going  to  the  spot  where  the  man  had  been  secreted,  a  hatchet  was  found  in  the  ditch,  with  which  it  is  presumed  the  blow  had  been  given.—The  man  was  brought  to  Scolcoates,  and  lodged  in  the  House  of  Correction  at  that  place.  His  name,  we  under understand,  stand, understand,  is  Forbes.  DREADFUL  FIRE.—On  Tuesday  afternoon,  between  five  and  six  o'clock,  the  beautiful  mansion  of  Sir  John  Kennawav,  Bart.  -  -  called  Escot-house,  near  Honiton  (formerly  the  residence  of  Sir  George  Yonge),  caught  fire,  and  continued  burning  until  ten  o'clock  at  night,  by  which  time  it  was  entirely  consumed.  The  conflagration  was  so  tremendous  that  little  could  be  saved,  ex except  cept except  some  papers,  plate,  and  jewels.  The  accident  was  occa occasioned  sioned occasioned  by  a  lighted-candle  being  left  in  a  dressing-room,  which  set  fire  to  one  of  the  curtains,  and  spread  so  rapidly  as  not  to  be  extinguished.  Some  engines  were  procured  as  soon  as  possi possible  ble possible  from  Ottery,  but  so  injured  by  the  late  frost  as  to  render  them  useless.  Sir  John,  and  a  party  of  friends  were  at  dinner  when  the  first  alarm  was  given,  and  we  are  happy  to  find  that  tit)  personal  injury  was  experienced  by  any  of  the  family  ;  but  we  have  to  lament  the  death  of  Mr.  Pile,  a  respectable  young  farmer,  who,  in  assisting,  fell  from  a  ladder  twenty  feet  from  the  ground,  and  was  killed  on  the  spot.  TUESDAY'S  LONDON  GAZETTE.  PARTNERSHIPS  DISSOLVED.  Owen,  Gale,  and  Stewart,  Bridewell  Hospital,  weavers.  Elizabeth  Barney  and  Ellen  Barney,  Wolverhampton,  inn innkeepers.  keepers. innkeepers.  J.  Barratt,  S.  Barran,  and  J.  Holbert,  Manchester,  flour-dealers.  I.  Taplen  and  W.  Tapleu,  Portsmouth,  cabinet cabinetmakers.  makers. cabinetmakers.  Martin  and  Gardiner,  St.  John's-street,  ironmongers.  Austin  and  Saddington,  Tower  Royal,  Watling-street,  druggists.  Allen  and  Andrews,  Bromley,  Middlesex,  pipe-borers.  R.  Welsh,  G.  Welsh,  and  B.  Rideing,  Liverpool,  brokers.  A.  Clarke,  R.  Clarke,  and  'Filson,  Liverpool,  flour-dealers.  BANKRUPTCIES  SUPERSEDED.  l  Robert  Morris,  Lincoln,  money-scrivener.  BANKRUPTS.  .  •  William  Edwards,  Broad-street,  Bristol,  cordwainer,  to  sir.  render  Jan.  3,  16,  and  Fel).  1,  at  ten,  at  the  Rummer  Tavern,  Bristol.  Attornies,  Mr.  James,  Gray's  Inn  square;  and  Mr.  Mell  in,  Bristol.  William  Blackburn,  Leeds,  Yorkshire,  woolstapler,  Jan.  4,  5,  and  Feb.  7,  at  eleven,  at  the  Star  and  Garter,  Leeds.  At Attornies,  tornies, Attornies,  Mr.  Speigat,  Leeds;  and  Mr.  Battye,  Chancery-lane.  John  Gash,  Parker's-row,  Bermondsey,  victualler,  Jan.  7,  at  one,  17,  at  ten,  and  Feb  ?  7,  at  one,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Sgaith,  Great  St.  Helen's.  Barret  Sellars,  Little  Hutton,  innkeeper,  Jan.  4,  16,  and  •`.  1  !tiit'fr"
