text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  .1r  A  N  U.  9  .  Major-General  Manniugham  and  Leith  ;  and  the  brigade  or  Guards  under  Major-General  Warde.  'Co  these  officers,  and  the  troops  under  their  immediate  orders,  the  greatest  praise  is  due.  Major-General  Hill  and  Colonel  Catlin  Crauford,  with  their  brigades  on  the  left  of  the  position,  ably  supported  their  advanced  posts.  The  brunt  of  the  action  fell  upon  the  4th,  42d,  50th,  and  81st  regiments,  with  parts  of  •  the  brigade  of  Guards,  and  the  `?6th  regiment.  From  Lieutenant  Colonel  Murray,  Quarter-Master-General,  and  the  officers  of  the  General  Staff,  I.  received  the  most  marked  assistance.  l  had  reason  to  regret,  that  the  illness  of  Brigadier-General  Clinton,.  Adjutant-general,  deprived  me  of  his  aid.  I  was  indebted  to  Brigadier-General  Slade  during  the  action,  for  a  zealous  offer  of  his  personal  services,  although  the  cavalry  were  embarked.  The  greater  part  of  the  fleet  having  gone  to  sea  yesterday  evening,  the  whole  being  under  weigh,  and  the  corps  in  the  embarkation  necessarily  much  mixed  on  board,  it  is  impossible  at  present  to  lay  before  you  a  return  of  our  casualties.  1  hope  the  loss  in  numbers  is  not  so  considerable  as  might  have  been  ex expected.  pected. expected.  If  I  was  obliged  to  form  an  estimate  I  should  say,  that  I  believe  it  did  not  exceed  in  killed  and  wounded  from  seven  to  eight  hundred  ;  that  of  the  enemy  must  remain  unknown,  but  many  circumstances  induce  me  to  rate  it  at  nearly  double  the  above  number.  We  have  some  prisoners  but  I  have  not  been  able  to  obtain  an  account  of  the  number  ;  it  is  not,  however,  considerable.  Several  Officers  of  rank  have  fallen  or  been  wounded,  among  whom  I  am  at  present  enabled  to  state  the  names  of  Lieutenant-Colonel  Napier,  92d  regiment,  Majors  Napier  and  Stanhope,  50th  regiment,  ;  Lieutenant-Colonel  Winch,  4th  regiment,  Lieutenant-Colonel  Faue,  59th  regiment,  Lieutenant  Colonel  Griffith,  Guards,  Majors  Miller  and  \%  imams,  Slst  regiment,  wounded.  To  you  who  are  well  acquainted  with  the  excellent  qualities  of  Lieut.  Gen.  Sir  John  Moore,  I  need  not  expatiate  on  the  loss  the  army  and  the  country  has  sustained  by  his  death.  His  fall  has  deprived  me  of  a  valuable  friend,  to  whom  long  experience  of  his  worth  had  sincerely  attached  to  me.  But  it  is  chiefly  on  public  grounds  that  I  must  lament  the  blow.  It  will  be  the  conversation  of  every  one  who  loved  or  respected  his  manly  character,  that,  after  conducting  the  army  through  an  arduous  retreat  with  consummate  firmness,  he  has  terminated  a  career  of  distinguished  honour  by  a  death  that  has  given  the  enemy  ad additional  ditional additional  reason  to  respect  the  name  of  a  British  soldier.  Like  the  immortal  Wolfe,  he  is  snatched  from  his  country  at  an  early  period  of  a  life  spent  in  her  service;  like  Wolfe,  his  last  mo moments  ments moments  were  gilded  by  the  prospect  of  success,  and  cheered  by  the  acclamation  of  victory  ;  like  Wolfe  also,  his  memory  wit!  fur  ever  temaiu  sacred  in  that  country  which  lie  sincecelyloved  and  which  he  had  so  faithfully  snyeal.  It  remains  fur  me  only  to  express  my  hope,  that  you  will  speedily  1w  restored  to  the  service  of  your  country,  and  to  la lament  ment lament  the  unfortunate  circumstance  that  removed  you  from  your  station  in  the  field,  anti  threw  the  momentary  command  into  far  less  able  hands.  I  have  the  honour  to  be,  &amp;c.  JOH  N  HOPE,  Lieut.-Gen.  To  Lieut.-Gen.  Sir  David  Baird,  &amp;c..  &amp;c.  SUPPLEMEFT  TO  TILE  LONDON  GAZETTE  EX EXTRAORD  TRAORD EXTRAORD  IN  A  It  Y.  Admiralty-quice,  Jan.  Si.  Copy  of  a  Letter  from  the  lion.  Michael  De  Cottrev,  Rear-  Admiral  of  the  White,  to  !lon.  W.  Wellesley  l'ole,  dated  Cu  board  his  Alajesty';  ship  tile  Touuant,  at  Corunna,  the  17th  and  18th  instant.  Stu,  January  17,  1509.  Haying  it  in  deiign  to  detach  the  Cossack  to  England  as  soon  as  her  boats  shall  cease  to  be  essential  to  the  embarkation  of  troops,  I  seize  a  moment  to  acquaint  you,  for  the  information  of  the  Lords  Commissions  of  the  Admiralty,  that  the  ships  of  war,  itA  per  margin*,  and  transports,  under  the  orders  of  Rear-Ad Rear-Admiral  miral Rear-Admiral  ,Sir  Samuel  Hood  and  Commissioner  Bowen,  arrived  at  this  anchorage  from  Vigo  on  the  14th  and  15th  inst.  the  Alfred  and  Ilindostan,  with  some  transports,  were  left  at  Vigo  to  re receive  ceive receive  a  brigade  of  3300  men,  that  had  taken  that  route  under  the  Generals  Alten  and  Crawford.  In  the  vicinity  of  Corunna  the  enemy  have  pressed  upon  the  British  in  great  force.  The  eatbaration  of  the  sick.  the  caval cavalry,  ry, cavalry,  and  time  stores  went  on.'  The  night  of  the  16th  iva:,  appoint appointed  ed appointed  for  the  general  embarkation  of  the  infantry  k  and,  in  wean  time,  the  enemy  prepared  fur  attack.  At  three,  p.  m.  an  ac action  tion action  commenced;  the  enemy,  which  had  been  posted  on  a  lofty  hill,  endeavouring  to  force  the  British  on  another  hilt  of  inferior  height,  and  near  the  town.  The  enemy  were  driven  back  with  great  slaughter  ;  but  very  sorry  am  1  to  add,  that  the  British,  Clough  triumphant,  have  suffered  severe  losses.  lam  unable  to  communicate  further  particulars,  than  that  Sir  John  Moore  re.  ceised  a  mortal  wound,  of  which  he  died  at  eight;  that  Sir  David  Baird  lost  an  arm  ;  that  several  Officers  and  many  men  have  been  killed  and  wounded  ;  and  that  the  ships  of  war  have  received  all  such  of  the  latter  as  they  could  accommodate,  the  remainder  being  sent  to  transports.  The  weather  is  now  tempestuous,  mid  the  difficulties  of  em embarkation  barkation embarkation  are  groat.  All  except  the  rear  guard  are  embarked,  consisting  perhaps  at  the  present  !moment  of  '2600  men.  The  enemy  having  brought  cannon  to  a  bill  overhanging  the  beach,  have  forced  a  majority  of  the  transports  to  cut  or  slip.  Embark Embarkation  ation Embarkation  being  no  longer  practicable  at  the  town,  the  boats  have  been  ordered  to  a  sandy  beach  near  the  light-house,  and  it  is  hoped  that  the  greater  part,  if  not  all,  will  still  lie  embarked,  the  ships  of  war  having  dropped  out  to  facilitate  embarkation.  JAN.  18.---The  embarkation  of  the  troops  having  occupied  the  greater  part  of  last  night,  it  has  not  been  in  my  power  to  detach  the  Cossack  before  this  day  ;  and  it  is  with  satisfaction  I  am  able  to  add,  that,  in  consequence  of  the  good  order  main maintained  tained maintained  by  the  troops,  and  the  unwearied  exertions  of  Commis Commissioner  sioner Commissioner  Bowen,  the  Captains,  and  other  Offie!rs  of  the  Navy,  the  Ageing,  as  well  as  the  boats'  crews,  many  of  whom  were  for  two  days,  without  food,  and  without  repose,  the  army  have  been  embarked  to  the  last  malt,  and  the  ships  are  now  in  the  offing,  preparatory  to  steering  for  England.  The  great  body  of  the  transports  having  lost  their  anchors,  rats  to  sera  without  the  troops  they  were  ordered  to  receive,  in  consequence  of  st  hick  there  are  some  thousands  on  board  the  ships  of  war.  Several  transports,  through  tni  , STYLE=superscript  .management,  ran  on  shore.  The  seatuito  appeared  to  :13ve  abandoned  them,  two  being  brought  out  by  the  boats'  crews  of  the  men  of  svar,  two  were  burnt,  and  rive  were  bilged.  1  cannot  conclude  this  hasty  statement  without  express expressing  ing expressing  my  great  obligations  to  Rear-Admiral  Sir  Samuel  Hood,  ‘vhose  eye  was  every  where,  and  whose  exertions  were  unro.  mitted.-1  have  the  houour  to  be,  tite.  111.  Dr  COVRCY.  hazy  weather  rendering  the  Cossack  obscure,  I  detach  tbe  Gleaner  with  this  dispatch.  *  Ville  de  Paris,  Victory,  Barfieur,  Zealous,  Implaralsle,  Elizabeth,  Norge,  Plautagetiet,  Resolution,  Audaciou-,  taloa,  Mediator.  TUESDAY'S  LONDON  GAZETTE.  PAH  I  NERSIIIPS  DISSOLVED.  it.  and  T.  Davis  and  Butt,  Davis's  Wharf,  !:nuthwarlr.,  what.  tinger—Birtles  and  Harrison,  Manchester,  pluinbers—E.  and  W  .  Evans,  Wolverhampton,  iron-plate-workers—Jervis,  Lambley,  and  Phillips,  Derstend,  Birtuangliam,  bras-founders---Hall  and  Hyde,  Edgeley,  Cheshire,  cotton-spinners—J.  and  J.  French  and  Burgess,  Frome  Set  wood,  Somersetsbire,  clothiers—Rich.  mond,  3 STYLE=superscript  .l:ebster,  and  Robinson,  Sculcoate:,  y  orkshire,  common commonbrewers--Hotham,  brewers--Hotham, commonbrewers--Hotham,  J.  Seaton,  J.  Seaton,  R.  Seaton,  and  J.  Seaton,  Pontefract,  Yorkshire,  bankers--Hothatn,  J.  Seaton,  J.  Brook,  J.  F.  Seaton,  C;.  C.  Seaton,  It.  Seaton,  and  J.  See Seeton,  ton, Seeton,  Huddersfield,  bankers.  BANKRUPTCY  SUPERSEDED.  William  Partington,  Nlanettester,  money-scrivener.  B  AN.KRUPTS.  John  Tucker  and  Richard  Roth  well,  Manchester,  cottoa-manu cottoa-manurteturers,  rteturers, cottoa-manurteturers,  Jan.  30,  31,  and  March  7,  at  two,  at  the  Dog  Tavern,  Manchester.  Attoruies,  Messrs.  Redhead  and  •  Brother',  Man Manchester.;  chester.; Manchester.;  and,  Messrs.  Milne  and  Parry,  Temple.  John  Greenwell,.  South  Shields,  butcher,  Feb.  9,  14,  and  March  1,  at  ten,  at  the  Golden  Lion  Inn,  Sofsth  Shields.  Attor Attornies,  nies, Attornies,  Mr.  Bainbridge,  South  Shields;  and  Messrs.  Bell  and  Brohick,  Bow-lan?,  Cheapside.  James  Winnard,  Ormskirk,  brewer,  Feb.  9,  at  six,  10.  and  March  7,  at  eleven,  at  the  Talbct,  Ormskirk.  Attornic;,  Air.  Thomas  Blackstock,  tit.  Mildred's-court,  Poultry  ;  and  Messrs.  IV  right  and  Palmer,  Ormskirk.  ThOlUaS  llachail,  Criggleston,  York,  butcher,  Feb.  2`2,  and  March  7,  at  eleven,  at  the  Woolpacks  Inn,  IValietield.  Attoruies,  Mr.  Batty%  Chancery-lane;  and  Ma  E.  Brooli.  Wakefield."
