text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  7'U.C.SD  A  Y'S  LO✓%J)ON  GAZE  ffE.  RtNKRUPTCY  ENLARGED.  James  Manning  . STYLE=superscript  ,  Bristol,  grocer,  from  April  Pi  to  June  6,  at  the  Wbite  Lion  Tno,  Broad-qieet,  Bristol.  George  T.ty  tor,  Bri.tol,  meretrant,  from  April  15  to  June  3,  at  the  White  Lion  Tnu,  Broad-street,  Bristol.  BA  NKRVpTs.  Josiah  Allen,  Toxteth  Park,  Latica  - STYLE=superscript  iter,  oilman,  to  surrender  May  9,9,  and  . STYLE=superscript  .?3,  at  eleven,  at  the  liiitte4  Arms  Inn,  Harriir;ton,  Liverpool.  A  ttornies  Mr.  Hatton  Garden;  and  Mr.  Shryiniiher,  Harrittzton,  'Liverpool.  Drajamin  Swintlen  and  John  Smallwood,  Ito!)  well,  , STYLE=superscript  treet,  St.  Cletnent'A  Danes  toymen,  April  n,  and  May  2.i,  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  John6on,  Charlotte-street,  Fitert.-,iquar!.  acquainting  yon  with  the  very  zealous  and  active  exertions  of  Ma Major  jor Major  O'Rourke,  and  the  steady  and  orderly  coiduct  of  the  detach detachment  ment detachment  of  the  63d  Regiment,  and  of  availing  invself  of  this  oppor.  tnnity  of  expressing  my  thanks  to  Captains  King  and  Tucker,  or  the  Roy-al  Navy.  I  feel  much  pleasure  in  hearing  testimony  to  the  very  active  attention  o  f  C  a  pt.  De  C  ourcv  ,  of  the  Qua,  ter-  Master-General  and  Barrack  Department,  in  taking  pos,ession  of  the  barracks,  as  vi  ft'  preparing  au  inventory  of  the  ord ordnance  nance ordnance  stores,  &amp;c.  Likow  ire  to  the  conduct  of  Dr.  Burke,  in  taking  charge  of  nil  concerns  relating.  to  the  medicardepartment,  and  of  Lieutenant  Ila  tuition,  of  the  •Atlo  Regiment,  officiating.  as  Major  of  Brigade,  who  on  all  occasions  merits  my  entire  appro approbation.  bation. approbation.  1  have  the  honour  to  Iw,  &amp;e.  (Signed)  6.  Att  es.,  Lieut.  Cal.  llis  Excellency  Major-General  Maitland,  4r.  &amp;r.  [Capitulation  of  the  town  of  St.  Pierre.  The  troops  'ire  pri prisoners  soners prisoners  of  war;  all  public  property  :•urreuderrtl  to  the  ca4rtors.l  •  llead  Quarters,  Martinique,  Feb.  28,  1599.  -  -  -  N  1  Y  LORD—in  my  letter  of  the  23th  instant,  I  had  the  honour  to  transmit  to  your  lordship  the  details  of  our  operations  to  the  11th  preceding,  from  that  period  to  the  19th  we  were  incessantly  employed  in  the  construction  of  gun  and  mortar  hat hatteries,  teries, hatteries,  and  in  the  landing  cannon,  mortars,  and  how  itzers,  a  ith  their  ammunition  and  stores,  in  dragging  them  to  the  several  points  selected  by  the  eng  ineers,  and  in  the  completion  of  . STYLE=superscript  the the%vorks.  %vorks. the%vorks.  and  in  mounting  th  ordnance.  The  exertions  of  Com Commodore  modore Commodore  Cockburn,  and  other  naval  officers  under  his  orders  upon  the  right,  and  of  Captains  Barton  and  Nesham  of  the  navy  upon  the  left.  in  forwarding  these  services.  were  most  conspicuous.  The  enemy  during  the  interval  fired  upon  our  encampments  with  shi.t  and  shells,  but  fortunately  with  little  eGct,  and  his  picq  nets,w  hen  pressed,  constantly  fell  hack  under  the  protectinn  of  his  works.  On  the  10th,  at  half  past  four  in  the  afternoon,  we  opened  floor  six  point;  upon  the  enemy's  fortress,  w  jib  fourteen  piece  s  of  heavy  cannon,  and  twenty-eight  mortars  and  how  itzers,  and  tile  cannonade  and  bombardment  continued  with  little  remission  until  noon  of  tile  23d,  when  the  French  General  sent  a  trumpet  with  a  letter  to  our  advanced  posts,  near  the  Boodle  redoubt,  in  the  front  of  attack.  In  this  communication  'general  Villa Villaret  ret Villaret  proposed,  as  the  basis  of  negociation,  that  the  French  troops.  should  be  sent  to  France  free  from  all  restrirtioe  as  to  future  service;  but  this  being  inadmissable,  the  boinh:irdment  recom recommeeced  meeced recommeeced  at  ten  at  night,  and  continued,  without  intermission  until  nine  o'clock  of  the  2  , STYLE=superscript  lth,  when  three  white  floes  were  discovered  flying  in  the  fortress,  in  consequence  of  which,  our  fire  from  the  batteries  immeaiately  ceased.  It  is  with  the  most  heartfelt  satisfaction  I  have  now  the  honour  to  report  to  vi  ur  Lordship.  for  his  Majesty's  information,  that  supported  by  ;he  talents  of  the  General  Officers,  and  in  particanr  of  Lieuterant  General  Sir  George  Prevost,  and  of  Major  “eneral  Maitione,  the  experience  and  zeal  of  all  the  other  officers,  and  the  value  r  and  onreme.ting  labour  of  this  army,  strengt  hotted  by  the  inch  -  fatigable  exertions  of  Rear  Admiral  Sir  Alexander  •  Cochra  e  and  the  squadron,  the  campaign  notwithstanding  incessant  rah's,  has  been  brought  to  a  glorious  conclusion  in  th.  - STYLE=superscript  short  space  of  twenty-seven  days  from  our  departure  from  Barbadoes.  The  commlnd  of  such  an  army  will  constitute  the  pride  of  my  future  life.  To  these  brave  troops  by  Generals  of  ex  perience,  and  not  to  me,  their  king  and  country  owe  the  sows  reignty  of  this  important  colony  and  I  trust  that  hy  a  comps,.  risen  of  the  force  which  defended  it,  and  the  time  in  which  it  bre  fallen,  the  present  reduction  of  Martinique  will  not  be  deems  d  eclipsed  by  any  former  Expedition.  I  have  the  honour  to  is  the  Articles  of  Capitulation,  as  originally  produced  by  the  French  Commissioners,  in  consequence  of  General  application  to  me  for  this  purpose,  during  the  forenoon  of  t  1  e  Nth,  and  acceded  to  by  Lieutenants-general  Sir  George  Presiet  e  Major-General  Maitland  and  Commodore  Cockburn,  appoint•  d  by  the  (tear-Admiral  and  myself  to  meet  them.  This  Capitt...  lation,  which  was  mutually  ratified  the  saute  night,  will,  I  tills',  be  honoured  by  his  approbation.  1  inclose  also  a  return  of  ti  e  French  garrison,  which  it  is  supposed  will  be  in  a  state  to  en  kark  in  the  course  of  :t  few  days;  front  which  it  will  tippet  r  that  I  did  not  over-rate  the  original  umnbers  of  the  enemy.  EV  the  next  conveyance,  I•shall  have  the  honour  to  submit  to  yo  L  s,  Lordship's  consideration  the  various  details  which  are  now  Ir..  ferred  to  in  general  terms,  and  to  report  the  merits  of  the  sewer  ;  1  corps;  but  the  science  of  the  officers  °lithe  Royal  Artillery  1%;  s  been  too  conspicuous  not  to  be  particularly  noticed,  thfiotecrroii:  of  the  enemy's  fortress  being  t  o  r  n  t  o  pi  eces  b  y  shells  ;as  w  have  also  been  injured  by  shot  front  the  guts-batteries,  WIMP  d  by  the  seamen  under  the  direction  of  Commodore  Cockburn  d  other  naval  ofliceri.  After  the  embarkation  of  the  Frentk,  P11_TB00011 •  .  .  ,--  M  -...  •  Danes,  toymen,  April  15,  25,  and  May  2.3  Mr.  Johnson,  Charlotte-street,  1  azros•-stot;  r  a:  .  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Major  of  Brigade,  who  on  all  occasions  merits  my  entire  appro-  bation.  1  have  the  ilonour  to  lw,  &amp;c.  D  I  V  I  D  1:  N  M.  (Signed)  6.  411  June  go.  William  Thempsln,  Dean-street,  So  u  th  war  k,  an  d  Ebenezer  Lead-  his  Excelleney  Major-Genera/  1/nitiotl,  141r.;:4  Lieut.  Cot.  .  6 STYLE=superscript  beater,  Moor-place,  Lambeth.  merchants,  at  twelv  e  ,  a  t  t;  lom  a  t'.  i  May  16.  William  Reeve,  Clapham,  coach-master,  at  twelve,  a  t  Guildhall.  May  G.  Phi  11  ivie-i,  RI  te'driars-ruad,  hatter,  :i  t  tiv.lve,  at  Guildhal  I.  soners  of  war;  all  public  property  s  urr  e  ndens  i  l  t  o  th  e  caistors.  1 STYLE=superscript  Ma  )  1.  V%  'atm  Dean,  Newlirough,  huicaster,  at  oat:,  at  the  St  a  r  a  nd  G  a  r-  is  t  e  r  Tavern.  P  tradise  , STYLE=superscript  :t  -reet,  Liverpool.  Head  Quarters,  Martinique,  F  e  b.  tlB,  1809  .  j STYLE=superscript  ba  N  il  l  .  ity  9.  I,lwrence  Cuttoa,  Fenchurch-street,  merchant,  a  t  twelve,  at  Guild-  [Capitulation  of  the  town  of  St.  Pierre.  ')'h  e  t  roo  p  s  are  pr  i  -  •  MY  LORD-in  my  letter  of  th  e  25th  i  ns  t  an  t,  I  hail  the  •  s  ' STYLE=superscript  ,  i  i.  l  , STYLE=superscript  •  ,  May  16.  Stephen  Murzana  n  d  Witthew  Itudshaw  Mlrley,York.street,  South-  honour  to  transmit  to  your  lordship  th  e  d  e  t  a  il  s  o  f  our  operat  i  ons  •  wark,  hop-factors,  at  twelve,  a  t  G  u  i!dh  a  l!.  to  the  lith  preceding,  from  that  period  to  the  19th  we  were  May  .‘2.  George  D  av  i  es  ,  Crahlynar,...treet,  Leicester-aehls,  linen-draper,  a  incessantly  employed  in  the  constructi  on  of  ;sun  and  mortar  h  at  .  one.  at  Guildhall.  teries,  and  in  the  landing  cannon,  Mortar  s,  and  howitzers,  VI  i  t  h  's STYLE=superscript  I,  r  4tav6.  Daniel  Hoffman,  Belton-dreet,  Long-acre,  cheesemonger,  at  one,  at  Guildhall.  their  holm  million  and  stores,  in  dragging  the  m  t  o  t  h  e  several  o.  May:.  Wi!liam  Spears,  11)nd-lane,  ii4h-salesinan,  at  :.  -.-en,  at  Guildhall.  points  selected  by  the  engineers,  and  in  the  completion  of  . STYLE=superscript  the-  I  May  i.  Daniel  M•Kinia  :  and  Abraham  Mendes  Bell,  ario,  Size-lane,  !tier-  works.  and  in  mounting  the  ordnance.  The  exertions  of  Corn-  ell:tilts,  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  ft  M  2.  Thomas  Hetheriogton,  Lawveace  Pountney-l  ane  ,  broker,  at  one,  at  modore  Cockburn,  and  other  na  va  l  o  ffi  cers  un  d  er  hi  s  orders  upon  Guildhall.  the  right,  and  of  Captains  Barto  n  an  d  N  e  sh  atn  o  f  t  h  e  navy  upon  May  b.  Jcl-.1.  Boranan,  Water-lane,  Tower-street,  brandy  merchant,  at  twelve.  the  left.  in  forwarding  these  services.  were  most  conspic  uous  .  Th  e  •  at  Geittivill.  enemy  during  the  interval  fired  upon  our  encampments  with  shi.t  4  Aril  21.  !Teary  Grundy  Beetsan,  Gray's  Inn-square,  money-scrivener,  at  iand  s  lulls  b  it  fortunately  with  little  eGct,  and  his  picquets,wheo  twelve,  at  Gini  , STYLE=superscript  thall.  -I  Mat  9.  William  Fortntau.  Pall-alley,  Lombard-street,  stationer,  at  ten,  a  t  pressed,  constantly  fell  hack  und  e  r  th  e  protection  of  his  w  or  k  s  .  Guildhall'  May  I.  John  Jones,  Langalen  t  Denhigh,  shopkeeper,  at  eleven,  at  the  Cross-  Hess  Tun,  Oswestry,  Salop,  May  5.  William  Holdsworth,  Addington,  York,  Sax-spinner,  at  eleven,  at  the  On  s  the_  oi  I  oth,  at  half  past  four  in  the  afternoon,  we  opened  floor  p  Dint;  upon  the  enemy's  fortress,  ts  ith  fourteen  piece  s  of  heavy  cannon,  and  twenty-eight  mortars  and  hots  itzers,  and  the  George  Inn,  Kingston-upon-Hell.  cannonade  and  bombardment  continued  with  little  remission  4  May  si.  William  Tankard,  I  '  , STYLE=superscript  lion-street,  Aiistol,  cabinet-matter,  at  eleven,  at  I  until  noon  of  the  23d,  when  the  french  General  sent  a  trtim  put  the  Rummer  'farm,  All  Saints-lane,  Bristol.  with  a  letter  to  our  advanced  ►p  buildings,  Manchester.  osts,  near  the  Boodle  redoubt,  May  9.  Thomas  Barlow,  Manchester,  merchant,  at  four,  at  the  Ne  w  E  xc  h  ange  -  in  the  front  of  attack.  In  this  communication  (general  Villa-  t•  May  4.  It....hert  Gouldon,  Liverpooh  merchant,  at  eleven,  at  the  George  Inn,  ret  proposed,  as  the  basis  of  ne  g  o  c  i  at  i  on  ,  th  at  the  French  troops.  •  DJ.le-strut,  Liverpoo:.  should  be  sent  to  France  free  front  all  restrirtioo  as  t  o  f  uture  May  6.  John  Collins,,lwry-street,  Aldrate,  merc  h  an  t,  at  e  l  even  ,  at  Gu  i  ldhall  .  May'  . STYLE=superscript  6.  John  Silvebtand,  .-Spicer-strect;Spitalfields,  colour-manufacturcr,  at  service;  but  this  being  inadmissable,  the  b  om  b  :m  i  meo'  reeom-  twelve,  at  Gnildliall.  flowed  at  ten  at  night,  and  continued,  without  intermission  .1  May  16.  Joseph  Anderson,  Gracechurch-street,  painter,  at  one,  at  Guildhall.  until  nine  o'clock  of  the  24  th,  Is  hen  three  white  fliws  u  ere  .  .  May  2.  Joseph  Mackenzie,  Old  Bailey,  bookseller.  at  twelve,  at  Guildhall,  discovered  flying  in  the  fortress,  in  consequence  of  which,  nut  May  10.  Charles  Wright,  Aid  :rate,  tobacconist,  at  one,  aildhail.  (  June  3.  Sincl  fire  from  the  batteries  in  t  meai  a  t  e  ly  cened.  It  is  with  th  e  most  .  :.  are  Wright,  White-hose-lane,  White:lmpel,.  merchant,  at  one,  at  Guildhall.  heartfelt  satisfaction  I  have  now  the  honour  to  Ceport  to  se  ur  at  A STYLE=superscript  Guildha  ll.rne  .3.  William  Winter,jun.  Blackfriars-  r  oad,  p  a  i  n  t  er  and,  glazi  -r,  atone,  Lordship.  for  his  Majesty  '  s  information,  that  supported  by  ;he  May  14.  John  Hetrell,  Ex  e  t  er  ,  corn  -  merc  h  ant  ,  at  .eleven,  at-the  Ohl  London  talents  of  the  General  Officers,  and  i  n  p  ar  ti  cu  r  nr  of  Li  euterant  lan,  Exeter.  G  enera  l  Sir  George  Prevost,  and  of  Major  ge  nera  l  M  a  i  t  l  an  i STYLE=superscript  e,  •  June  27.  Rohort  Soanes,  Mark-lane,  provi  don-merchant,  at  one,  at  Guildhall.  the  experience  and  zeal  of  all  the  other  officers,  and  the  vale,,  r  June  27.  William  Altham,  Tokenhouse-vard,  broke:,  at  one,  at  Guildhall.  and  stnremilting  labour  of  this  army,  strengt  hosted  by  the  hob  -  '  4 STYLE=superscript  l  •  CERTIFICATI:S-M.l  Y  2.  fatigable  exertions  of  Rear  Admiral  Sir  Alexander  •Cochra  e  Nicholas  Middlecoat.  Treniny.Corawall,  iirolteeper--William  Watson,  Great  and  the  squadron,  the  campaign  notwithstanding  incessant  mite..  fambridx•e-street,  Haekney-road,  builder-Juba  Macklam,  Strand,  tobaeconist•  has  been  brought  to  a  glurions  conclusion  in  tho  short  spare  of  Hobert  Frith,  B  roug  ht  on  F  o  rd,  NI  aliche!at#l..  calico-ptinter  -Th  o  ina;  cra  t  o  s  ,  -  Dilworth,  Lanca,ter,  tanner-Thomas  B  i  erry  Eleet-street,  man's-mercer--  twenty-seven  days  frolic  our  departure  from  Barb  a  d  oes  .  Samuel  Davis  '  jun.  Ilford,  klinpkeeper-M:chael  %w.-hater,  Witham,  A  Of'.,  i  The  commlitd  of  such  an  army  will  constitute  th  e  p  r  id  e  o  f  my  builder-  , STYLE=superscript  •Charles  Vine.  Westbury,  Wilt-,  tallow-chandler-Willi  tin  Lucas,  future  life.  Ckemside,  warehouseman.  To  these  brave  troops  conducted  . STYLE=superscript  by  Generals  of  ex  perience,  and  not  to  me,  their  king  and  country  owe  the  sow•  reignty  of  this  important  colony:  and  I  trust  that  hy  a  comps,.  LONDON  GAZETTE  .EXIII,AORDINAIIY.  risen  of  the  force  which  defended  it,  and  the  time  in  which  it  hr:  fallen,  the  present  reduction  of  Martinique  will  not  be  deeme  d  --....._  eclipsed  by  any  former  Expedition.  1  h  ave  t  h  e  h  onour  to  is  )  •  Downing-Street',  A  prill2,  1809.  •  Captain  Preedy,  Aide-de-C  am  p  t  o  Li  eutenant  -G  enera  l  B  ec  k  -  close  the  Articles  of  Capitulation,  as  or  i  g  i  na  ll  y  pro  d  uced  by  the  of  n  General  %  in  consequence  'illaret  s  with,  commander  of  his  Nlajesty's  troops  in  the  Leeward  Islands,  French  Commissioners,  l  . STYLE=superscript  arrived  at  one  o'cl  o  ck  thi  s  d  ay  .  w  i  t  h  di  spatc  h  es  f  rom  the  application  to  me  for  this  purpose,  during  the  foreno  on  o  f  t  l  e  24th,  and  acceded  to  by  IA  N:tenants-General  Sir  Georg  e  P  revotte  Lieutenant-General,  to  Lord  Vi  scoun  t  Castlereagh.  one  of  his  Major-General  ,Maitland  and  rointilOdore  COCkblirp,  b STYLE=superscript  appoint.  d  Majesty's  principal  Secr  e  ta  r  i  es  o  f  S  tate  .  [Letters  fro  by  the  Rear-Admiral  and  myself  t  o  meet  t  h  em.  This  Capitt.-  from  Generals  Beckwith  and  sTaitland  •  introductory  lation  which  was  mutually  ratified  the  same  night,  will,  I  truss,s  of  the  following  report  f  rom  C  o  l  one  l  B  arnes.  j  be  honoured  by  his  approbation.  1  inclose  also  a  return  of  tl  e  Si  It,  St.  Pierre,  Feb.  S.  1809.  I  French  garrison,  which  it  is  supposed  will  he  in  a  state  to  en  In  obedience  to  the  orders  T  had  the  honour  to  receive  from  kark  in  the  course  of  :t  few  days;  from  which  it  will  apple:  r  yeti,  I  proceeded  with  the  detachment  of  the  (rid  liegiinenl.  that  I  did  not  over-rate  the  original  'mothers  of  the  enemy.  Lir  i  *  commanded  by  Major  O'Rourke,  on  board  his  Majesty's  sloops  the  next  conveyance,  I-shall  have  the  honour  to  submit  to  yo  L  r  -  I  I'elnrus  add  eiteruh,  off  Corhet,  w  h  ere  th  e  troops  were  di  =em-  Lordship  '  s  consideration  the  various  details  which  are  paw  Ir.  i  barked,  and  march  e  d  w  ith  out.  delay  fowards  St.  Pierre  ;  ab  ou  t  ,  f  erre  d  t  o  i  n  genera  l  terms,  and  to  report  the  merit?  of  the  bevel-it  a  mile  from  the  town  I  found  a  body  of  the  militia  posted,  and  corps;  but  the  science  of  the  officers  °lithe  Royal  Artillery  h;  s  ,  immediately  sent  Major  O'Rourke  forward  with  a  flag  9f  truce,  been  too  conspicuous  not  to  be  particularly  noticed,  the  kited,  r  ,  oilering  them  terms  on  which  th  e  i  r  own  surren  d  er  and  that  of  the  of  the  enemy'  s  f  or  t  ress  b  e  i  ng  torn  to  p  i  eces  by  &amp;hells  ;  Ida  world  .'  1  town  would  be  accepted,  n  Weil  i  have  herewith  the  s:ltisfnc-  .  have  also  been  injured  by  shot  from  the  gun-batteries,  MIMI'  d  ~,  s.  lion  to  trans  m  it  to  Your  1::  xcellency  for  the  ratification  of  . STYLE=superscript  the  by  the  seamen  under  the  di  rec  ti  on  o  f  C  ommodore  Cockburn  at  d  4-  -  cotamatnlcrsi  n  Chief  by  sea  and  laud,  1.  cannot  wuetude  without  '  other  naval  oflicen.  After  the  ccubarkation  of  the  Frentk,  •  , STYLE=superscript  iii  •"
