text
"THE  NATIONAL  RFGISTER.  these  heroes,  who  so  fondly  ,  indulged  themselves  in  the  hopes  of  reflecting  new  lustre  on  their  country  ,  and  them themselves,  selves, themselves,  were  dragged  reluctantly  to  their  own  shores,  be before  fore before  the  battle  of  Spain  was  half  over.  The  Parliamentary  business  of  this  week  comprised  a  variety  of  objects,  which  have  been  already  the  subject  of  much  discussion  and  animadversion  out  of  the  House.  The  Cintra  convention,  the  conduct  of  his  MAJzsTy's  Mi Ministers  nisters Ministers  relative  to  Splin  and  Portugal,  'the  Orders  in  Council,  and  the  Correspondence  between  our  Govern Government  ment Government  and  France  and  Russia,  were  referred  to  and  canvassed  but  as  these  matters  are  to  come  under  Future  discussion,  we  will  defer,  until  that  time,  any  observations  on  them.  The  object  of  most  immediate  interest  to  the  public  was  the  motion  made  by  - STYLE=superscript  Lord  (.  7 STYLE=superscript  .x5Ti.4:111.-.Aen,  for  an  immediate  augmentation  of  the  army.  This  measure  cannot  fail  to  meet  the  concur concurrence  rence concurrence  of  every  man  who  is  in  the  habit  of  reflecting  On  the  awful  occurrences  of  our  time.  The  proposed  aug augmentation  mentation augmentation  is  to  consist  of  25.000  Volunteers  from  the  Mi Militia.  litia. Militia.  if  we  fml  any  inclination  to  qualify  our  approba approbation,  tion, approbation,  it  is  on  the  ground  that  the  number  is  limited  to  29,000.  We  are  sorry  lie  specified  any  particular  number,  but  had  allowed  the  whole  body,  if  willing,  to  incorporate  themselves  with  the  reE,-ulac  army.  The  extraordinary  emergency  of  the  limes  woulajustify  this  un uncommon  common uncommon  measure;  and  as  the  expellee  to  the  public  is  the  same,  whilst  the  superiority  of  regular  troops  is  au:know au:knowlculwyd,  lculwyd, au:knowlculwyd,  we  see  no  reason  why  We  should  not  deviate  from  the  cautious  spirit  of  our  ancestors,  and  convert  our  whole  Tnilitary  force  into  a  regular  army.  Considered  as  a  nur nursery  sery nursery  for  the  Wier,  the  militia  may  have  its  advantages  ;  hat  when  unprecedented  exertions  can  alone  save  the  coun country.  try. country.  its  armed  force  should  be  rendered  as  effective  as  pos posbible,  bible, posbible,  either  for  defensive  or  offensive  warfare.  Mr.  WAnnEes  Motipn  was  made  on  Friday  relative  to  the  mode  of  disposing  of  com  Missions  :  A  number  of  gross  abwes  were  alluded  to  on  the  occasion,  which  if  substan substantiated,  tiated, substantiated,  skew  to  what  an  alarming  extent  corruption  and  mis-nanagetnent  are  carried  in  the  military  department.  The  public,  as  well  as  the  Commander-in-Chief,  owe  the  highest  acknowledgments  to  the  Moyer  for  his  wanly  con conduct  duct conduct  on  the  occasion.  The  hasty  rumours  which  went  abroad,  have  already  excited  so  mu  c  h  disgust,  that  it  is  the  interest  of  every  party,  that  their  fallacy  or  malice  he  clearly  ascertained.  Men,  in  high  ostensible  situations,  arc  ex exposed  posed exposed  to  hare  their  conduct,  perhaps  too  rigorously  exa examined;  mined; examined;  hut  this  inqnisitorial  spirit.  hoy.e‘er  painful  it  is  may  he  to  the  Iceliag:4  of  the  in‘lividnal,  hoo  . STYLE=superscript  ever  tna:iciotis  in  its  tendency,  is  )n.0111(16.1:  of  too  many  ad advantages  vantages advantages  to  the  public  service,  as  that  we  should  condwnn  it  in  told,  in  consequence  of  the  partial  evil  it  may  inflict.  '!'hr  loyalty,  the  ardent  attachment  of  the  country  for  the  Sovereign  and  Ws  family,  are  too  well  established,  too  onilersally  2.4  to  appreheud  that  these  rumours  oritin:lte  in  any  disafrection  to  the  present  establishment.  The  persons  who  are  guilty  of  the  unpardonable  levity  to  impute  them  to  so  unfounded  a  close,  should  hays  made  themselves  better  acquainted  with  the  sentiments  of  a  Bri British  tish British  public,  before  they  havarded  so  unwarrantable  an  as asiiertion.  iiertion. asiiertion.  We  thought  tb7  cry  of  Jacobinisin  and  conspi conspiracy  racy conspiracy  long  since  extinct.  and  that  those  unfortunate  fords  and  recrimination.  which  have  so  much  dishonoured  and  disturbed  the  conclusion  of  the  last  century,  WOOld  not  be  L.-ought  forward  to  alarm  the  wition  in  the  present  awful  incture  of  its  affairs..  The  greatesi  unanimity,  the  exertion  power  we  possess,  are  warcely  competent  to  save  and  we  have  the  mortification  of  hearing  from  men.  viao4e  wisdom  and  gravity  we  suppose  from  the  high  rank  employments  they  hold,  a  repetition  of  those  dreadful  r!lar4e;,  ‘vhich  had  filled  a  considerable  part  of  Europe  die);ll'.!r  and  misery,  with  infarmers,  executioners,  :tad  dd  4 STYLE=superscript  .  Public  characters  cannot  be  too  cautious  t!wir  ~r;ineisirms  ;  fo:  what  they  may  say  inadvertently  JAN.  29.  or  in  the  irritation  of  party  debate,  is  received  by  many  as  fact  ;  and  the  rhetoric  a  l  flourish  of  the  Senator,  meant  only  to  irritate  his  opponent,  or  to  glatify  a  patron,  often  causes  a  degree  of  perturbation  among  the  ?tuba/Lied,  and  uninformed,  which  the  orator  may  not  imagine,  We  are  happy  in  beins  hle  to  remove  the  public  anxiety,  relative  to  the  safety  of  that  division  of  our  troops,  which  -  separated  from  the  rest  at  J4ugo,  and  took  the  road  ,  (ro  They  arrived  there,  and  embarked  without  any  im im,  , im,  pediment,  Major  RAINEy  of  the  8'  .?.:1  Regiment,  sailed  from  the  Tagus  On  the  16th  inst..and  reached  Vigo  on  the  Igth  where  he  found  General  Ca.o  u  lt  D,  and  the  following  corps  under  command,  embar4ed,  and  intending  to  sail  the  next  day  :  the  second  halt:thous  of  the  52d  and  95th,  the  first  of  the  Chi  and  two  of  thz.!  German  Regi Regiments,  ments, Regiments,  The  following  is  given  as  an  abstract  of  a  general  return  of  tie  troops  embarked  at  Corunna  lur  England  :  Cavalry  -  -  -  '  Engineers,  Artillery,  Drivers,  &amp;c,  Infantry  .  -  -  Total,  sick  included,  Raok  and  File.  2,872  %6Sti  19,534  aL  j'~~(11  The  corps,  which  embarked  at  Vigo,  amounted,  it  is  said,  to  3100:  so  that  the  whole  force  which  has  left  Spain,  may  be  estimated  at  upwards  of  28,000  men.  The  united  forces  under  Sir  Jon  N  MOOR  E  and  Sir  DA  yin  Omni).  *  previous  to  their  junction,  were  computed  at  33,000  etfec,  tive  men  ;  which  would  make  our  loss,  during  the  retreat  and  in  the  different  rencountres  with  the  enemy,  amount  to  near  5000  men.  Tins  estimation  Is  supported  b  3  the  authority  of  General  STEWART,  who  signalised  himself  so  much  in  the  affair  near  lleneNente,  against  a  detachment  of  BONAPARTE'S  horse-guards.  This  g  allant  ()dicer  stated  last  night  in  the  Hou  s  e,  - STYLE=superscript  that  our  loss  did  nut  amount  to  5000.  Government  is  said  to  have  received  advice  from  Mr.  Frere,  our  Minister  to  the  Supreme  Junta,  stating  that  the  most  vigorous  preparations  are  making  in  the  southern  provinces  of  Spain,  to  resist  the  progress  of  the  enemy.  Private  letters  also  announce,  that  as  soon  as  intelligence  lind'heen  received  at  Seville  of  the  depaiture  of  Bonaparte  from  Madrid,  where  he  left  a  garrison  of  only  SOOO  men,  orders  were  immediately  sent  by  the  Supreme  Junta  to  the  force  under  Cuesta  and  the  Duke  of  Intantado,  to  march  to  the  Capital,  in  order  to  disl  o  dge  the  enemy,  who.  had  strongly  fortified  themselves  in  the  Retiro.  It  is  also  stated  with  confidence,  that  the  force,  which  sailed  sonic  time  ago,  under  General  Sherbrooke,  is  des destined  tined destined  for  Cadiz,  and  that  Ministers  have  stipulated  with  the  Government  of  Spain,  to  admit  our  troops  in  the  gar garrison  rison garrison  and  ports  of  that  City  . STYLE=superscript  .  This  force  is  to  be  followed  by  the  most  formidable  armament  that  ever  sailed  from  this  country,  to  consist,  it  is  said,  of  60,000  men,  who  are  immediately  to  be  equipped  and  embarked.  His  Majesty  declared  in  his  Speech  at  the  openin;  of  Parliament,  that  as  long  as  the  Spaniards  remained  true  to  themselves,  he  will  continue  to  them  his  most  strenuous  assistance  and  support.  In  conformity  to  this  declaration,  immense  sup supplies  plies supplies  of  ,  clothiler  ro  provisions,  tents,  arms,  and  ammunition,  are  to  be  forwarded  to  Gibraltar,  Cadiz  and  the  Balearic  Islands,  which  are  to  be  placed  in  our  hands,  as  depots  for  our  Military  Stores.  The  preparations  for  the  new  Arma Armament  ment Armament  arc  made  with  so  much  vigour,  that  the  Officers,  who  landed,  a  few  days  ago,  from  Spain,  obtain,  with  difficulty,  a  short  leave  of  absence  to  visit  their  friends.  We  understand  that  a  Seville  Gazette  of  a  late  date  has  been  received  in  town,  which  contains  a  letter  from  Gen-  Muria  to  the  Supreme  Junta,  in  which  he  strongly  advises  the  Junta  not  to  suffiT  the  English  to  get  possession  of  any  of  the  fortified  towns  in  Spain  ;  on  the  contrary,  he  says,  they  ought  to  fortify  the  sea-ports  against  them.  lie  also  states,  that  he  has  seen  their  new  Sovereign,  Joseph  80  ..  nalrartc,  whom  be  represents  as  a  man  of  the  greatest  saga"
