text
"'VIE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  and  integrity  he  evinced  in  detecting  the  most  in infamous  famous infamous  abuses,  in  trying  to  bring  the  shameless  authors  of  them  to  condign  punishment.  Selfishness  and  fac faction  tion faction  may  strive  to  calumniate  the  intentions,  and  to  detract  from  the  merits  of  Mr.  WARDLE;  but  we  will  neither  insult  the  feelings,  nor  good  sense  of  our  Readers,  by  asking  them,  if  a  line  of  conduct,  which  •  immortalised  HAMDEN,  RUSSELL,  and  SYDNEY;  which  made  Englishmen  what  they  are,—a  nation  of  freemen,—does  not  deserve  their  highest  gratitude  and  applause?  The  public  voice,  as  far  as  it  has  been  consulted,  has  expressed  itself  distinctly  on  this  subject;  and,  it  is  to  be  hoped,  that  the  enlightened  exam example,  ple, example,  set  by  Canterbury,  Rochester,  Westminster,  and  Lon London,  don, London,  will  excite  a  worthy  spirit  of  emulation  in  every  part  of  the  United  Kingdom.  We  have  received  intelligence  From  Spain  and  Tortugal.  These  accounts  confirm  the  insurrection  in  the  province  of  GaMelo,  which  is  already  become  so  formidable  to  the  in invaders,  vaders, invaders,  that  an  entire  corps  is  constantly  occupied  without  effect  in  repressing  it.  The  MARQUIS  of  RomANA  has  col collected  lected collected  a  considerable  force,  amounting  it  is  said,  to  30,000  znen,  on  the  frontiers  of  that  province,  where  he  is  enthu enthus:astically  s:astically enthus:astically  loved,  and  his  family  possess  great  influence.  A  Spanish  schooner,  the  Constancia,  which  arrived  at  Falmouth  from  Gijon  reports,  that  the  Marquis  DE  HirSIANA  has  had  an  action  with  the  French,  and  taken  1500  pri prisoners.  soners. prisoners.  The  accounts  from  Asturias  are  still  more  favourable.  These  loyal  and  intrepid  Mountaineers,  into  whose  province  the  enemy  never  dared  to  penetrate,  have  organised  a  force  of  near  40,000  men,  with  which,  accordi►►g  to  the  last  accounts,  they  are  preparing  to  act  offensively  against  the  enemy  in  Callicia.  Vie  last  arrivals  from  Portugal,  speak  in  the  highest  praise  ofkthe  resolution,  and  enthusiasm  prevalent  in  every  part  of  that  kingdom.  APRIL  P.  ever  forced•  to  yield  to  superiority  of  numbers  and  pressure  of  circumstances,  they  have  signalised  their  embarkation  by  an  action,  which  reflects  immortal  ho honour  nour honour  on  their  bravery,  patience,  and  discipline.  Their  conduct,  on  that  memorable  oecasion,  justifies  the  most  ardent  hopes  we  may  eutertaiu'of  their  future  exer exertions.  tions. exertions.  They  arc  going  to  re-appear  on  the  Continent  in  support  of  their  country's  reputation,  in  defence  of  in in'  ' in'  jured  humanity,  under  auspices  the  most  encouraging,  with  inducements  to  action  the  most  binding,  that  es  er  nerved  the  arm,  or  raised  the  confidence  of,  a  soldier.  Exclusive  of  national  injuries,  they  have  individual  wrongs  to  revenge;—the  base  calumnies  which  the  enemy  circu circulated  lated circulated  after  their  departure,  must  be  washed  away  with  the  blood  of  their  calumniators.  Their  prowess  is  now  known  to,  and  acknowledged  by,  foes  and  allies;  it  will  raise  the  courage  and  ardour  of  the  one,  as  it  will  panic  strike  the  former.  These  observations  are  as  little  the  ell'ect  of  enthusiasm  as  of  declamation  ;  their  justice  must  be  acknowledged  by  every  impartial  and  intelligent  observer  of  the  -  British  character.  The  people  of  the  United  Kingdom  are  supremely  qualified  for  war,  and  for  the  execution  of  enterprises  on  a  large  scale.  Our  late  reverses,  the  effects  of  inexperience  and  of  over  cautious  policy,  rather  than  a  deficiency  of  judgment,  have  had  the  advantage,  that  we  arc  now  acquainted  with  the  cause,  why  our  exertions,  as  a  military  state,  leave  been  so  ineffitclual  for  sonic!  years.  They  are  to  lie  traced  alone  to  want  of  confidence  and  promptitude,  and,  by  no  means  to  a  want  of  sufficient  resources.  These  exit,  to  the  ful fullest  lest fullest  extent,  which  a  community  animated  with  Nlews  even  of  the  most  towering  ambition,  could  wish  for  towards  the  executierl  of  the  most  gigantic  projects.—A  pdpulation  po;scsael  of  robuster  bodies  and  more  capabic  of  endur enduring  ing enduring  hardships,  than  any  other  now  existing  es-a  superfluity  of  all  the  implements  of  war;—an  almost  inexheustible  sys system  tem system  of  finance;—a  greater  vigour  of  mind,  and  a  stronger  attachment  to  the  soil  and  its  institutions,—these  arc  ad advantages  vantages advantages  we  possoes  in  a  higher  degree,  than  any  other  peo people  ple people  upon  earth.  Any  man  who  is  in  the  habit  of  reflecting  on  this  sub subject,  ject, subject,  must  be  convinced  that  if  this  country  play  a  subor suboreinate  einate suboreinate  part  in  the  affairs  of  the  world,  this  weakness  is  snot  a  consequence  of  the  insui;iciency  of  our  means,  hut  of  the  unskilfulness  with  which  they  are  wielded  and  em employed.  ployed. employed.  We  love  the  interests  of  our  country  too  ar ardently,  dently, ardently,  to  intermingle  in  any  observations  tending  to  promote  that  object,  remarks  breathing  a  party  spi spirit.  rit. spirit.  It  is  perfectly  indifferent  to  us  what  men  admi administer  nister administer  its  affairs—Foxites  or  Pittites—Whigs  or  Tories  —they  will  have  our  must  unlimited  confidence,  and  humble  support,  if  they  administer  them  to  its  honour  and  advantage.  The  Ministers,  whoever  they  be,  that  adopt  measures  consistent  with  our  best  and  most  permanent  in interests,  terests, interests,  have,  from  that  moment,  a  r  s  ie STYLE=superscript  rht  to  the  gratitude  lid  support  of  their  countrymen.  Pusillanimous,  arid  avers  too  cautions  policy  never  procured,  as  far  as  we  cam.  recollect,  ad  vantaea!  to  any  country.  In  a  daneerous  crisis,  it  may  have  deferred  the  catastrophe,  but  rendered  it,  ‘vhen  it.  approached,  ne*  unavoidable,  and  its  conse consequences  quences consequences  more  irretrievahk  ;  whereas  a  full  display  of  vi vigour,  gour, vigour,  bordering  on  temerity,  has  saved  individuals,  as  well  as  nations,  from  situations  apparently  desperate.  In  a  prosperous  moment  it  hiasts  every  advantage  of  the  favour favourable  able favourable  junctere  ;  and,  in  ordinary  times  iL  confines  a  nation  within  a  narrow  eirde,  which  contracte,  every  year,  closer  and  closer  ;—for,  in  our  world,  nothing  is  stationary  ;  po political,  litical, political,  as  well  us  natural  philosophy,  teaches  us  the  laws  of  motion  ;—the  State  which  does  not  advance,  must  fall  hack.  If  this  princip!e  I►e  just,  the  urgency  of  more  vigorous  exertions  will  be  immediately  recognised.  Al  4  auxiliary  force  430,000  melt,  we  hope,  is  no  more  than  the  advanced  guard  of  a  formidnble  arms  ;  whose  presence  in  any  part  of  the  Continent,  the  Tagus,  or  the  Erns,—would  justify  .he  opiniou  we  entertain  of  the  great  advantages  of  ener•"
