text
"V3O  THE•  NkTIONAL  REGISTER..  way,  united  under  one  Sovereign,  would  be  more  able  to  coon coonterari  terari coonterari  Russia  than  separately  .  Some  rely  im  the  Wisdom  of  our  Government,  and  the  strength  of  the  nation  ;  some  till  Alex-.  antleFi  expressed  Pelinp,-:  for  tiw  Swedes;  and  others,  still  inure  absurd,  on  the  genero  •ity  of  Bonaparte.  Sweden,  poor  Sweden,',  is  placed  bet  •  een  two  fire-,  and  1  hope  she  will  not  be  coll collimated  imated collimated  to  ashes  by  both.  IMPERIAL  PARLIAMENT.  HOUSE  OF  LORDS.  .41onday,  April  17.  The  Earl  of  Liverpool  moved  the  thanks  of  the  House  to  the  ()dicers  and  men  who  had  reduced  the  island  of  Martinique.  Lord  OaExvit.t.t:  did  not  oppose  the  Vote  of  Thanks.  It  was  merited  by  the  Naval  and  Land  Commanders,  Officers,  and  Ale).  lie  wished  only  not  to  he  thought  to  approve  the  policy,  or  rAther  impolicy,  of  ohich  Government  had  been  guilty,  in  sating  another  sugar  island  to  those  which  we  &amp;heady  possessed,  and  the  produce  of  which  could  find  no  market.  The  Earl  of  LivEnrOOL  vindicated  the  conquest  of  Marti Martipique,  pique, Martipique,  on  account  or  the  strength  and  position  tiftfm  island.  Had  lite  viewed  it  merely  in  a  commercial  light,  would  have  pro probably  bably probably  entertained  the  same  opinion  as  the  Noble  Lord.  The  Vote  of  Thanks  to  the  Generals,  Naval  Commander,  Mi Milers,  lers, Milers,  and  Men,  then  passed  nern.  di.is.—Adjourned.  Tuesday,  April  SIWIISII  CAMPAIGV.  •  'rte.  Earl  of  Livl  ttroor.  observed,  that,  notkrstanding  it  w  t,  the  intention  of  the  Noble  Earl  (Grey  )  to  move  for  certain  papers,  forwarded  in  the  month  of  October  last  to  this  country  h  , STYLE=superscript  the  (facto.  of  Gallicia,  he  had  searched  for  the  documents  al allu  lu allu  ed  to  in  the  office,  and  they  could  no  where  be  found.  There  w  •re  page  a  of  the  2d  of  October,  but  not  of  the  10th  and  I  Ith  ;  but  in  case  thoy  should  be  found,  they  would  be  laid  before  the  House  forthwith.  It  was  insisted  by  Lord  GREY,  that  the  instructions  sent  to  Mr.  Frere,  connected  with  the  advance  of  the  British  troops  into  Spain,  and  the  communications  made  by  that  Minister  to  Sir  John  Moore,  in  consequence  of  those  instructions,  ought  to  have  :  been  laid  before  the  withont  reserve,  and  though  the  in int  t int  oloation  nfl'orded  the  Rouse  by  his  Majesty's  &#34;'Ministers  might  he  ample  in  Some  points,  yet  it  was  not  bullicient,  and  more  was  wanted  to  render  the  information  required  cmplete.  Lord  LI  V  I:ttro0I.  replied  generally  to  these  and  other  sug suggestions  gestions suggestions  by  say  in;,  that  the  information  already  afforded  the  upon  the  subject  of  the  Spanish  campaign  was  ample  in  the  extreme,  and  that  his  Majesty's  (.;  overnment  meant  Wrest  the  justification  of  their  conduct  upon  that  information.  Adjourned.  •  •,••  •  APRIL  23.  wally  led  to  misrepresentations  of  facts,  or  to  erroneous  mean  sores.  .Both  haditaken  place  during  the  late  contests  in  Spain.  He  recollected  the  glowing  pictures  that  had  been  given  of  the  patriotism  'of  the  'Spaniards,  and  the  exaggeration  of  their  mili military  tary military  force,  which  was  said  to  have  amounted  to  400,000  soldiers,  v.  ith  are  serve  of  more  than  600,000  men.  But  after  lookieg  .over  the  defective  documents  which  had  been  laid  on  the  table  •he  found  that  Lord  W.  Bentinck,  at  the  commencement  of  the•  .contest,  had  sent  the  most  discouraging  accounts  to•  this  country.  As  to  the  spirit  which  %YRS  displayed  by  the  Spa Spaniards,  niards, Spaniards,  he  would  refer  their  Lordships  to  a  letter  of  Sir  John  ;More,  dated  the  21th  of  November,  in  which  he  staled,  that.  it  had  been  entirely  damped  by  their  first  defeats.  In  Mr.  t'rot's  letter  of  the  nth  of  November,  in.  answer  to  Sir  John  Moore,  they  would  find  that  he  described  the  provinces  through  sit  Mich  the  British  army  were  then  passing,  as  the  Last  distio distioguished  guished distioguished  for  patriotic  spirit.  Front  other  testimonies,  his  Lord Lordship  ship Lordship  strongly  suspected  that  that  letter  had  sutfvred  strange  alte alterations;  rations; alterations;  that  passages  had  been  omitted,  and  that  what  now  scented  to  refer  to  one  Small  part  of  the  country  .alone,  in  the  original  extended  to  the  whale  of  Lr.tn  and  both  C:  stile'.  Blake  had  tt,st::t  80,,C01  men,  Paiafoy  12,00  4 STYLE=superscript  i,  Castarms  'A3,000,  all  badly  clothed,  and  in  e  ant  of  arms,  and  the  Fre,tch  upwards  of  100,600.  It  w;!-  trite,  t  hr.?  at  the  beginning  or  the  campaign  some  splendid  feats  iought  he  'pointed  oft!.  After  the  Freoch  had  retreated  over  Gas  Ebra,  had  not  the  legions  of  Spain  stalk  into  spine  anti  careless  indolence  ?  What  had  they  done  to  secure  the  italependcace  of  country?  Fort  s  -ti  ve  thousand  Freoch  alone  n  ere  left,  and  they  were  permitted,  unmolested,  to  possess  nearly  one-third  of  Spain,  until  the  reinforcements  which  they  re received  ceived received  had  sworn  theta  once  more  inw  an  invading  army.  The•  Governments  tvitich  had  been  formed  in  every  province,  had  weakened  by  dividing  the  ruling  authority.  The  J  tunas  had  lost  the  confidence  of  the  people,  and  all  hopes  of  success::  must  have  been  giveaup  by  the  impartial  and  clear-sighted.  Under  these  circumstances,  he  thought  that  assistance  might  have  been  Skid-.  ed,  but  not  such  a  had  been  sent.  Au  army  .  was  flu  required,  bat  arms,  money,  and  provisions.  Ministers  ought  to  have  followed  a  regular  plan,  sprung  front  mature  consideration,  and  tried  infor information.  mation. information.  But  how  had  they  disposed  of  the  forces  of  this  tout  try.  They  had  first  sent  Sir  John  Moore,  with  11.,000  men  to  Sweden,  to  assist  that  small  kingdom  against  the  gigantic  power  of  its  assailants,  France,  Russia,  and  Denmark.  But  they  had  sent  Sir  John  Moore,  scarcely  knowing  what  he  should  do,  and  leaving  him  in  total  ignorance  of  their  intentions.  The  digrace digrace'  ' digrace'  ful  result  of  that  expedition  was  well  known.  lie  then  coins  pared  the  conduct  of  Bonaparte,  who  in  three  short  weeks  had  annihilated  all  the  Spanish  artuies,who  were  to  co-operate  with  ours,  and  had.reached  Burgos,  the  point  where  our  troops  were  to  unite  themselves,  before  Sir'  David  Baird  had  begun  his  march  from  Corinn',  and  a  day  before  Sir  John  Moore  lit:cl  entered  Salamanca.  lie  thought  that  the  second  advance  of  the  •  British  army,  when  not  a  single  Spanish  sword  was  raised  in  its  support,  and  toe  greatest  part  of  the  country  was  occupied  by  the  enemy,  14110FC  cavalry  scoured  the  plains  unresisted,  and  raised  contributions  unopposed,  a  measure,  which,  although  dig dignified  nified dignified  by  the  Secretary  of  State  with  the  name  of  useful,  was,  as  its  reshtt  had  proved,  destrective  of  our  best  troops,  and  fatal  to  the  interests  of  Spain.  Had  Sir  John  Moore  retired  to  a  situas  lion  where  he  could  make  a  stand,  the  dispersed  patriots  might  have  gathered  around  hint,  and  raised.  once  inure  the  banner  of  freedom.  The  frontiers  of  Portugal  or  Andalusia  would  halt,  afforded  him  a  Safe  retreat  ;  and  in  the  latter,  the  initireguablF  fortress  of  Gibraltar  would  have  secured  him  a  safe  embarkation.  The  Noble  Secretary  of  State  bad  asserted  that  this  advance  had  been  made  in  consequence  of  Mr.  Frew:4  message;  but  this  was  incredible.  The.  fact  was,  that  Mr.  Frere  was  miserably.  deficient  in  information.  The  Noble  Earl  then  alluded  to  thd  subsequent  correspoudence  of  Mr.  Frere,  to  the  false  infor information  mation information  contained  in  which  he  attributed  .llrno,t  the  whole  of  the  unfortunato  events  which  betel  the  British  Army.  Having  stated  the  principal  .reason  on  which  he  founded  his  charges  against  his  Majesty's  :Ministers,  he  should  not  enter  now  into  the  minute  ramifications  of  this  important  question,  in  almoscall  of  which,  he  imputed  blame  to  his  Majesty's  Goverumeot.  The,  N  Lord  concluded,  after  a  most  able  weed',  by  moving  That  an  humble  Address  should  be  presetatil  to  his  Majesty,  mewing-that  the  disgrace  which  bas  attended  tine  expedition  to  Sp:tin  was  i  t  consequence  of  the  want  of  sudi  cieotinfor cieotinforillation  illation cieotinforillation  on  the  part  ()fills  1.114:  lay's  Ministers,  with  respect  to  the  state  of  affairs  in  that,  country,  autt•  their  steAleet  in  not  forming  a  plan'of  operation*,  ta  ud  of  those  means  which  alone.  could  have  enabled  tag  Mritisb  aoas  tcs  be.  of  itaisartasi&amp;  to  the  ap.mish  ."
