text
"ADMIft4L  HARVEY.  Mr.  ROSPRT  WA  Pin  brought  up  a  Report  from  the  [Ards  Commissioners  of  the  Admiralty,  intimating  that  their  Lord Lordships  ships Lordships  had  thought  it  expedient,  in  consequence  of  the  represen representations  tations representations  made  to  :hem  by  Admiral  Lord  thimbier,  Cillmander  in  Chief  of  his  Majesty's  ships  off  Rochefust,  to  order  a  C  on  yt  Martial  to  be  held  for  the  trial  of  Rear-Admiral  Harvey  for  breach  of  duty,  and  had  accordingly  issued  their  warrant  for  his  apprehension.  Ile  said,  Rear-Admiral  Horsey  being  a  Member  of  this  Honourable  [louse,  the  Lords  Commissioners  thought  it  incionbent  on  them  to  inform  the  House  of  such  a  proceeding  against  one  of  its  !Members,  and  to  transmit  a  copy  of  his  commitment,  and  the  order  for  holding  the  Court  Martial.  The  order  and  the  commitment,  as  directed  to  the  Marshal  of  the  Admiralty,  was  then  presented,  and  having  been  read,  was  ordered  to  he  laid  on  the  table.  The  trial  is  appointed  to  take  place  on  Moaday,  the  first  of  May  next,  at  Portsmouth,  Adj.  A.11E111(  1 STYLE=superscript  ..1  1  MR.  mAulsow's  swavervaAt.  SPEEER,  DELIVERED  MARCII  41  AT  TivKLyK  O'CLOCK.  WasmacTost,  ITaacH  4,  Unwilling  to  depart  from  examples  of  the  most  revered  authority,  I  avail  myself  of  the  occaion  now  presented,  to  express  the  profound  impres impression  sion impression  made  on  sue,  by  the  call  of  my  country  to  the  station,  to  the  duties  of  which  I.  am  about  to  pledge  myself,  by  the  most  so solemn  lemn solemn  of  sanctions.  So  distinguished  apark  of  confidence  proceed proceeding  ing proceeding  from  the  deliberate  and  tranquil  suffrage  of  a  free  and  vir virtuous  tuous virtuous  nation,  would,  under  any  circumstances,  have  commanded  my  gratitude  and  devotion,  as  well  as  tilled  me  with  awful  sense  of  the  trust  to  he  assumed.  Under  the  various  circumstanees  which  give  peculiar  solemnity  to  the  existing  period,  1  feel  that  both  the  honour  and  the  responsibility  allotted  to  me  are  inexpressibly  enhanced.  The  present  situation  of  the  world  is  Weed  without  a  ;  and  that  of  our  country  full  of  difficulties.  The  pres pressure  sure pressure  yf  these  Wo  k  is  the  more  leverdy  kit  tieca  .  ust  Moo  P5_TB00009 '  0111  111.,  1.  - STYLE=superscript  tttttttt  i  I  viirin  ,  °ine  Cllr  lu  IICI  WI  !mufti  IT'  inc  vAni  I  - STYLE=superscript  l  Mill  tial.  served  to  the  Strifes,  and  to  the  people,  as  equally  incorporated  i  The  order  and  the  commitment,  as  directed  to  the  Marshal  of  '  the  Admiralty,  was  then  presented,  and  having  been  read,  was  with,  and  essential  to  the  success  of  the  general  system  ;to  avoid  nr4ered  to  he  laid  on  the  table.  The  trial  is  appointed  to  take  the  slightest  interference  with  the  rights  of  conscience,  or  the  functions  of  religion,  so  wisely  exempted  from  civil  jurisdic-  place  on  Mooday,  the  first  of  May  next,  at  Portsmouth.  Adj.  1  tion  ;  to  preserve  in  their  full  energy  th  e  other  salutary  provi-  ......  1  .,  4  .,....,............  sions  in  behalf  of  private  and  persoint  riglos,  and  of  the  free.  i  ,  A  dam  of  the  press;  to  observe  economy  in  public  expenditures;  34.311;  It  1e..il  1  a  ,to  liberate  t  he  public  resources  by  anbonourable  dischar  ;  :e  of  the  .  ,  A  public  debts;  to  keep  within  the  requisite  limits  a  standing  mili-  ---tooot---  an.  mAutsow's  INAUDDRAL  SPEECH,  DELIVERED  mitaca  4,  tary  force,  always  remembering,  that  an  armed  and  trained  mili-  ..  AT  Trrsa.v  E  o'cLoest.  tut  is  the  firmest  bulwark  of  Republican  (;.Averinnents;  that  with-  !'•  out  standing  armies  their  liberty  can  never  lie  in  danger  ;  nor,  W4swisfaTost,  M  ARCH  4,  Unwilling  to  depart  with  large  onesolafe;  to  promote  by  authorised  menus  friendly  to  from  examples  of  the  most  revered  authority,  I  avail  m‘self  agriculture,  to  manufactures,  and  exit.,  nal  its  %%  l)  as  internal  of  the  occaion  now  presented,  to  express;  the  profound  impres.  commerce  :to  favor,  in  like  manner,  the  advancement  of  science  ,  slim  made  on  me,  by  the  call  of  my  country  to  the  station,  to  the  and  the  diffusion  of  information  as  the  best  aliment  to  true  li-  ~4  duties  of  which  I  am  about  to  pledge  myself,  by  the  most  so-  herty  ;to  carry  on  the  benevolent  plans  which  have  been  so  --•!  lemo  of  sanctions.  So  distinguished  a  i  mark  of  confidence  proceed-  meritoriously  applied  to  the  conservation  of  our  aboriginal  ing  from  the  deliberate  and  tranquil  suffrage  of  a  free  and  vit..  neighbours  from  the  degredation  and  wretchedness  of  sA,vage  ,I  A  •  Nous  nation,  would,  under  any  circumstalleci,  have  commanded  life,  to  a  participation  of  the  improvements  of  which  the  human  t  my  gratitude  and  devotion,  as  well  as  tilled  me  with  awful  mind  and  manners  are  susceptible  in  a  civilized  state.  As  far  i  I  A  .  .  I  sense  of  the  trust  to  he  assumed.  Under  the  various  circumstances  sentiments  and  intentions  such  rot  these  can  aid  the  fulfilment  of  !-  which  give  peculiar  solemnity  to  the  existing  period,  1  kel  my  duty,  they  will  he  a  resource  which  cann  ot STYLE=superscript  fail  me.  ,  ,'l  ,  that  both  the  honour  and  the  responsibility  allotted  to  me  are  It  is  my  good  fortune,  moreover,  to  have  the  patio  in  inexpressibly  enhanced.  which  I  am  to  tread  lighted  by  examples  of  illustrious  services,  1  The  present  situation  of  the  world  is  ifideed  without  2  pn-  successfully  rendered  in  the  most  trying  difficulties  by  those  - STYLE=superscript  who  ~,  ''.  ,  mliel  ;  and  that  of  our  country  full  of  difficulties.  The  pre,-  twe  taiirched  before  me.  (If  those  of  my  immediate  prederea-  4,  SlArc  gf  these  too  k  is  the  More  IsTereli  ftq  tleCa.Ust  OM  'or  ;  it  might  least  tteeonae  me  here  to  speak—l  may,  .  however  1  1 STYLE=superscript  I  .."
