text
"POLICY  OF  THE  CAPTURE  OF  MARTINIQUE.  .  r•  The  popular  attention  has  been  powerfully  attracted  to  the  rapture  of  Martinique,  as  announced  in  the  Extraordinary  Ga Gaulle,  ulle, Gaulle,  which  will  he  found  in  full  in  another  part  of  our  Paper  —  The  people  are  seldom  wrong  in  their  general  feeling.  Thereis  something  in  the  nature  of  this  acquisition  which  calls  for  pecu peculiar  liar peculiar  consideration.  It  is  with  nations  as  with  individuals—There  is  a  seeming  and  an  apparent  good,  and  in  the  variety  of  human  actions,  and  their  unforeseen  results,  it  is  possible  to  sneered  to  our  ruin,  and  acquire  to  our  loss.  I.et  it  not  be  here  said,  that  we  n  ith  hold  from  our  brave  rap raptors  tors raptors  the  praise  that  is  due  to  their  personal  heroism.  With  re respect  spect respect  to  them  there  can  he  but  one  opinion.  On  this,  as  on  every  other  occasion,  they  have  maintained  the  reputation  of  their  country,—they  have  added  another  laurel  to  our  national  w  Iva  th  ,  and  augmented  the  yenr  ral  stool.  w  ith  their  own  individual  ac acquisilloes.  quisilloes. acquisilloes.  It  was  the  praise  of  the  ancient  Spartans,  that  every  man  imagined  his  country  as  it  were  embodied  in  himself.  It  is  equally  the  characteristic  praise  Of  Englishmen,  that  they  fight  as  if  the  honour  of  the  country  rested  on  their  individual  efforts.  A  country  must  necessarily  become  great  n  here  every  individual  thus  identifies  him-ell'  in  her  interests  and  in  her  glory.  But  the  merit  o:'!irtvint  acquired,  rind  the  value  of  the  acqui acquisition,  sition, acquisition,  are  t  different  considerations,  and  in  point  or  fact,  retpeet  very  different  parties.  The  merit  of  the  conquest  belongs  to  the  Army  and  Navy--The  plliev  of  it  belJngs  to  the  Minis Ministers.  ters. Ministers.  Upon  this  point  of  the  queAlon,  therefore,  we  wish  to  oiler  501110  observations.  A  conquest  can  only  be  valuable  either  by  its  absolute  or  re•  lative  importnnee,—by  some  value  which  has  in  itself,  or  by  something;  which  it  derives  front  t  particular  state  of  thiugs.  Under  the  last  point  of  view,  the  most  barren  rock  may  become  of  relative  iinportance.  Malta  perhops  is  an  example  in  point  ;  Malta  neither  grows  corn,  nor  feeds  cattle,  equal  to  her  own  consumption,—it  must  always  he  supported  by  England..  But  Alatut,  barren  in  and  therefore  in  an  absolute  point  of  view  of  no  value,  a.ssanies  a  relative  imp  o;  twice  as  one  of  the  hula  arks  of  the  Mediteranean,  :Ind  under  these  circunislanees  teas  the  pretext,  if  not  the  actual  Cause,  of  the  recommencement  of  the  war.  The  value  of  'AI  artiolipte  toat  h'  rated  npoa  these  Itrincipl  --  What  is  it's  ith-elate  ya!ae  ?  W  hat  is  it  %%01  - STYLE=superscript  itt  in  it.:elf?  Or  Nvhiit  is  it's  relative  %aim.?  hat  other  points  of  importance  does  it  protnoti.  , STYLE=superscript  or  f;!cilitate?  Does  it  f`  X  pel  the  French  from  the  West  Indies,  and  in  co  doitiz,  does  it  materially  promote  the  wealth  and  commerce  of  Inland  Now,  with  re:Tect  to  it.  absol'ite  value.  Martinique  a  stigar  island,  and  ..vith  the  exception  of  Jamaica,  ev  ere&amp;  eV  ery  irinnd  in  our  pot-,cion.  Its  antimil  proitticc,  in  ,•tzgar  and  C01:01  1 STYLE=superscript  ,  if  proporliounte  to  its  magtii:arl:•.  and  fertility.  it  has  hero  well  olr,cr‘cti  by  tho'  e  ho  have  written  on  Ow  1  1 STYLE=superscript  ,.est  Indic'  , STYLE=superscript  ,  that  the  l'ret:cl4  VIII  i  vat  it):1  11:1••  th  a  t  of  the  I.:lnglis  , STYLE=superscript  '  Plaaters,  and  that  therentre  the  l'roncli  i  , STYLE=superscript  1,111;h4  arty  infinitely  ttior,  - STYLE=superscript  !  productive.  It  will  not  th  , STYLE=superscript  .-refore  he  too  extravagant  au  e.“iraate,  it  we  take  the  annual  rrinlace  o  f  .  04  ,  ;  :  t  r,  co  tt  o  o,  anti  other  colotii:;1  prodnee  at  Mar*.itatine,  at  about  911e•-fOUrl  h  atilt  •  that  i&gt;  raised  in  the  P2_TB00014 rity  of  popular  opinion  ;  and  the  highest  tors  the  praise  that  is  due  to  their  personal  heroism.  With  re-  immunity  is  justice  to  offenders.  Strict,  ,  ialit  y  'on  this  head  i  equally  beneficial  to  spect  to  them  there  can  he  but  one  opinion.  On  this,  av  °a  every  s  the  governed  ;—it  places  men  in  power  either  occasion,  they  have  maintained  the  reputation  of  their  ninds  them  incessantly  of  their  duty,  •  ac-  country,—they  have  added  another  laurel  to  our  national  a  reath,  as  a  severe  but  useful  Monitor  ,  teaches  and  augmented  the  gt`ltrrili  stock  with  their  uwu  individual  ac-  fit  cannot  inspire  them  with  virtue  ;is  quisitioas.  It  was  the  praise  of  the  ancient  Spartans,  that  every  etc  against  the  poison  of  power,  and  pre-  I  man  imagined  his  country  as  it  were  embodied  in  himself.  It  is  t  sanguinary  convulsions,  which  counter-  I  equally  the  characteristic  praise  of  Englis  hmen,  that  they  fight  the  excessive  and  enfeebling  humours  of  I  as  if  the  honour  of  the  country  rested  on  their  individual  efforts.  tints  anti  vitiated  constitutiona.  This  on-  A  country  must  necessarily  become  great  st  here  every  individual  to  offenders  is  a  sacred  duty  the  public  thus  identifies  himself  in  her  interests  and  in  her  glory.  tales,  as  well  as  succesaors,  in  (Alice  ;  for  oe,  even  barbarouc,  they  should  be  de-  But  the  merit  o!'llaving  acquired,  and  the  value  a  of  the  cqui-  sition,  arc  to  very  different  considerations,  and  in  point  or  fact  , STYLE=superscript  !rice  they  never  forfeited.  Too  unquali-  uo  undiscriminating  a  jealousy  of  every  w STYLE=superscript  l•  re  very  di  ff  erent  parties.  The  merit  of  the  conquest  belenti„.s  an  ostensible  employment,  must  ulti-  to  the  Army  and  Navy--T  he  p2liey  of  it  Wangs  to  the  Minis-  id  the  consequence  is  unavoidable,  that  tors.  Upon  this  paint  of  the  question,  therefore,  we  wish  LO  ok,  with  a  jealous,  hostile  spirit,  to  every  oiler  some  observations.  1  &#34;'anent;  and  thus  the  great  link  of  union  A  conquest  can  only  be  valuable  either  by  its  absolute  or  re.  '  ch  can  alone  render  the  community  re-  lative  importance,—by  some  value  which  has  in  itself,  or  by  t.  ind  tranquil  arid  prosperous  at.  home.  somethimt;  which  it  derives  front  a  particular  state  of  things.  ember  an  instance  in  the  history  of  this,  Under  the  last  point  of  view,  the  most  barren  rock  may  become  lacy,  where  sylliptollai  of  a  more  danger-  of  relative  iinpartunce.  Malta  perhaps  is  an  example  ill  point  ;  have:  manifested  themselves,  than  arc  vi-  Malta  neither  grows  corn,  nor  feeds  cattle,  equal  to  her  own  ant  in  Great  Britain.  The  highest  reach  .  consamption,—lt  must  always  be  s  u  ppo  rted  by  England..  But  dont,  of  conciliation  tempered  b STYLE=superscript  with  firm-  ,  ;Ude,  imperiously  urgent  in  order  to  restore  Malut  ,  barren  in  it:,elf,  and  therefore  in  an  absolute!  point  of  ,  view  of  no  value,  assumes  al  relative  impot  ;mice  as  one  of  the  !nee.  Those  who  are  zealou  s  and  ardent  o  if  abuses,  must  be  cautious  that  their  veal  hula  arks  of  the  Mediteranean,  :Ind  under  these  circumsainees  I  I  rd  to  intemperance;  their  love  of  reform,  was  the  pretext,  if  not  the  actual  cause,  of  the  recommencemeut  .  .  t  innov  alien.  Public  discontent  is  (  I  of  the  war.  I  onlined,  with  extreme  difficulty,  with-  The  value  of  Martilliiitu  - STYLE=superscript  inta.t  he  rated  nivel  these  principleei--..  •  if  it  reach  and  swell  to  a  certain  What  is  it's  ab-elate  vase  ?  W  hat  is  it  55  or:  hi  in  itmlf?  Or  nary  barriers  cannot  restrain  it  ;--it  over-  what  is  it's-  relative  saint.  ?  V,  hat  other  points  of  importance  t STYLE=superscript  every  trace  of  the  former  arrant:a-meats.  d  oes  it  a  nta  aor  fa  c  ilitate?  Does  it  expel  the  French  from  F  I  violent  resolutions  will  thwart,  I.  the  :  0  the  West  ladies,  and  in  so  (lulu,!  ,  dues  it  materially  promote  the  7y  reasonable  prospect  of  amelioration;  wea  l  t  h  an  d  efflomerce  o  f  i;  o  .ri  ao  d  ?  n  '  :.  '  tell  as  moderate  men,  will  recoil  front  an  .  '  3 STYLE=superscript  Now,  a  kit  re:Tect  to  its  absolute  value,  Martinique  ig,  a  sogaf  ,  ich,  if  not  calmly  and  prudently  maniered,  ,  ,  '  sum  , STYLE=superscript  o,  and  :rich  the  exception)  or  Jamaien,  exceeds  every  islaild  re  of  disorders,  far  more  dangerous  tj  ' STYLE=superscript  llie  in  s  e  sion.  annual  las  prodace,  in  sugar  and  cot:oa,  if  e,  thaw  the  abases  vi•  kith  'tow  undermine  ie  proportiounte  to  its  magiii:ada  and  fertility.  it  has  hero  well  The  ICeghest  prudence  and  temper  are.  'tally  requsile  ;----  tle  wild,  impracticable  oti,ery  ad  by  those  who  havo  w  Tilton  on  Ow  ,lest  Indie  , STYLE=superscript  ,  that  visionary,  as  well  as  the  frenzied,  disor-  E  the  :'reach  cultivation  has  :3  sx  ays  exceeded  that  of  the  English  of  the  dcmagogae,  must  be  equally  avoid-  Plaaters,  acid  that  therefore  the  French  isbauls  are:  infinitely  lit  towards  rational  reform.  inure  productive.  It  will  not  tlierefore  he  too  extravagant  an  el:lom  fall  to  the  lot  of  humanity,  are  rc-  ,  estimate,  if  we  take  the  annual  !  i  t  -ad:tee  of  .:agar,  coque,  twit  ar  imisirv,  who  would  bring  this  cris  i STYLE=superscript  s  to  a  lother  colt  iI  produce  ~  •  .  1  ...,  .  .  •  •  .  )I,  •.  at  _  ..  1  ,  hi  Atea  equally  alteutoe  to  the  demands  ot  that  raked  in  the  I.,:•g!ish  ialandi•  .  o  .  a  -  _•.  - STYLE=superscript  .  - STYLE=superscript  i  tiv  :  -  •••  -•-•  4 STYLE=superscript  •  ~;-•  •11.  •••  '  IF  :.:;;.  •  .t•  a  1 STYLE=superscript  •  .  •  .O'  .  4  .  -  •  .  -  -  -  ....  '  4  ,L  .  •..  •  4.,.  .•  1r  ..  -  •  al.  APRIL  16.  •  t  ma  -14$  P3_TB00005 ,  I"
