text
"APRIL  h STYLE=superscript  as  been  from  Bret  fortv-:even  days,  and  had  on  hoard  100  troops  and  1100  harrel4  of  dour  for  Cayenne;  meeting  with  su superior  perior superior  force  off  that  port,  she  was  obliged  to  push  for  clitada clitadaloupe.  loupe. clitadaloupe.  .  Our  loss  is  co-onaratively  small  with  that  of  the  enemy,  hav having  ing having  only  two  killed  and  one  wounded,  as  his  guns  were  chiefly  pointed  at  our  mast,  aud  rigging,  which  he  succeeded  in  rutting  very  much,  most  ()four  fore  and  main  rigging  shot  away,  and  had  we  been  under  sail  must  have  lost  (Mr  topmast  :  on  'the'  other  side  12  killed  and  14  wounded,  as  near  as  eau  he  aster,  twined  ;  for  the  instant  her  colours  were  hauled  down,  one  third  at  least,  took  to  the  water,  and  several  were  either  killed  or  drowned  in  attempting  to  escape.  -  -  -  Having  thus  given  you  the  detail,  it  becomes  a  pleasing  duty  to  me  to  represent  the  zeal  with  which  Capt.  Cameron  of  the  Hazard.  offered  his  services  before  the  action;  and  had  the  wind  allowed  him  to  get  up  sooner,  would  have  attacked  the  fort,  and  thereby  prevented  many  of  the  troops  .  getting  on  shore.  I  am  happy,  also,  in  having  an  opportunity  of  hearing  testi testimony  mony testimony  to  the  gallantry  displayed  by  the  officers  and  crew  of  his  Naje=ty's  ship  under  my  command,  and  beg  leave  to  recommend  my  First  Lieutenant  Simpson  to  their  Lordship's  notice  ;  also  Lieutenants  Pnckingham  and  Lambert,  as  good  officers,  and  every  way  deserving  their  Lordships'  notice.  I  have  the  honour  to  be,  &amp;c.  (Signed)  SAM.  JOHN  PECIIELL.  Rear-Admiral  Sir  A.  Cochrane,  Bart.  &amp;c.  Return  of  killed  and  wounded  on  hoard  his  Majesty's  ship  Cleopa Cleopatra,  tra, Cleopatra,  in  action  with  the  French  National  frigate,  La  Topaze,  Jan.  22.  Alexander  M'Cloud  and  John  Simms,  killed;  John  Francis,  wounded.  (Signed)  SAM.  JOHN  PECHELL•  [Here  follows  a  letter  from  Capt.  Maude,  of  the  Jason,  to  the  same  effect.)  Extract  of  a  Letter  from  Capt.  11`Kinley,  of  his  Majesty's  ship  the  Lively,  to  the  lion.  W.  W.  Pole,  dated  Villa  Garcia,  March  15,  1609.  I  beg  leave  to  state  to  you,  for  the  information  of  my  Lords  Commissioners  of  the  Admiralty,  that  - STYLE=superscript  since  my  !al  letter  'of  the  6th  inst.  (which  1  had  the  honour  of  transmitting  by  the  Sta Stalira,  lira, Stalira,  on  the  7th  instant),  a  body  of  French  troops  entered  the  towns  of  Carril  and  Villagarcia,  and  having  killed  some  old  men  and  women  whom  they  saw  in  the  streets,  and  set  fire  to  a  few  houses  of  the  people  whom  they  judged  inimical  to  them,  they  retreated  to  Paden.  On  the  9th  a  party  of  eighty  infantry  and  four  cavalry,  under  the  command  of  three  officers  from  Pontivedra,  entered  Marin,  hut  a  fire  being  opened  on  them  from  this  ship,  and  the  Plover,  and  the  Carronade  from  the  launch,  they  made  i  a  most  precipi precipitate  tate precipitate  retreat  ;  the  commanding  officer  on  a  good  horse,  and  the  four  cavalry  benefiting  by  their  being  mounted,  left  their  com companions,  panions, companions,  who  outrunning  their  officers,  a  Captain  and  Lieute Lieutenant  nant Lieutenant  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  Spaniards,  who  delivered  them  to  me.  It  is  with  the  most  heartfelt  satisfaction  that  I  can  with  con confidence  fidence confidence  assure  their  Lordships  that  the  spirit  of  the  Callicians  is  aroused  to  the  most  enthusiastic  ardour,  governed  by  a  cool  and  determined  courage,  which  the  feelings  of  loyalty  and  patriot patriotism  ism patriotism  generally  inspire;  and  they  confidently  lank  for  aid  to  the  generosity  of  the  British  Government  speedily  to  succour  them  wick  arms  and  ammunition,  to  enable  them  to  succeed  in  the  glo glorious  rious glorious  and  jut-t  cause  which  they  have  undertaken,  to  expel  the  perfidious  invaders  of  their  country.  The  enemy  is  much  distre-sed  by  a  malignant  fever;  not  les;  than  two  cart  loads  are  buried  daily  from  the  Head  Quarters  at  St.  lago  ;  the  Military  Governor  and  Commanding  Officer  of  Artillery,  with  a  number  of  other  officers,  have  fallen  victims  to  it.  Skirmishes  daily  -  take  place  between  the  peasants  and  the  enemy,  which  renders  their  procuring  provisions  both  difficult  n  and  harrassing,  and  many  fall  victims  to  fatigue.  In  this  perpe-  .  vial  warfare,  the  enemy  invariably  sutler,  particularly  on  the  2.  d  instant,  when  one  hundred  and  five  Frenchmen  were  pillaging  the  convent  of  St.  Bernardo  de  San  Claudio,  where  Don  Ber Bernardo  nardo Bernardo  Goncales,  a  ith  thirty  -two  Spaniards,  attacked  them,  took  many  hones  laden  with  pillage,  and  only  sixteen  of  the  enemy  escaped.'  On  the  9th,  10th.  and  14th  inst.  the  Frenen  attacked  toe  peasants  of  Deza  and  Ifevenza,  butt.tit.ed  by  thuae  o:  1.3030  b"
