text
"'have  displayed,  since  a  short  time,  such  an  abominable  relax relaxation  ation relaxation  in  their  private  conduct,  that  we  have  rather  reason  to  he  surprised  that  their  public  is  not  more  infamous.  It  is  a  truism  almost  too  trite  to  repeat,  that  a  bad  private  man  can  never  be  a  good  public  one,  and  the  wretch  who  is  callous  enough  to  abundoa  a  wife  and  eight  children,  in  order  to  live  in  illicit  intercourse  with  the  wife  of  his  friend,  will  likewise  be  base  enough,  if  au  adequate  price  be  offered,  to  betray  the  interests  of  his  country.  These  are  the  Jacobins,  these  arc  the  conspirators  against  tip  House  of  Brunswick;  for  they  debauch  the  state,  and  undermine  its  security.  The  mass  of  the  people,  who  form  their  judgment;  more  from  feeling,  than  elaborate  reflection,  naturally  cease  to  venerate,  and  confide  in  men,  who  do  not  even  affect  to  lay  any  claim  to  their  respect.  The  same  conduct  and  sentiments  pro produced  duced produced  the  misfortunes  of  the  continent  ;  and  we  shudder  least,  when  the  crisis  arrives,  they  may  occasion  similar  disasters  in  this  country.  '  Our  voice  and  exertions  shall  never  he  wanting  to  scare,  or  drag  back  our  countrymen  from  the  precipice  on  which  they  are  standing.  We  will  touch  every  string,  to  hear  if  a  generous  toile,  will  vibrate.  We  will  remind  them  of  the  glory  and  virtue  of  their  ancestors;  we  will  contrast  England,  powerful,  opulent,  free,  and  respected,  with  her  situation  as  an  abject,  plundered,  and  enslaved  province.  How  !  are  these  reflections  too  gloomy  !  are  our  apprehensions  exaggerated  ?  The  same  fatal  security,  the  same  indifference  to  exhortation,  were  equally  prevalent  three  years  ago  at  Madrid,  Berlin,  and  Stockholm.  Awl  what  •  has  been  the  consequence?  a  foreigu  usurper  is  lording  it  over  one.  whilst  the  legitimate  Monarch  and  his  family  are  pining  in  French  captivity.  The  nobility,  whose  vices,  intrigues,  and  pretensions  hastened  the  catastrophe,  are  now  converted  into  i  the  suspec  ed  slaves  of  an  Upstart  they  must  hate  and  despis  e  ,  or  paying  with  their  blood  the  forfeit  of  their  former  remissness.  The  cowariliee  and  treachery  of  the  Prussian  Nobles  occasioned  the  overthrow  of  that  celebrated  monarchy  ;  and  the  Swedish  capital  has  lately  witnessed  the  atrocity  of  seeing  its  young  So Sovereign  vereign Sovereign  dragged  from  his  throne  to  a  prison  by  the  very  same  order.  If  a  generous  sacrifice  has  been  made  in  apy  of  these  countries,  it  was  almost  solely  performed  by  the  people.  Their  affection  and  loyalty:for  their  sovereigns  increased  is  proportion  to  their  misfortunes  ;  and  calumniated  and  oegleeted  as  they  were,  they  adhered  to  their  establishments,  when  they  mere  betrayed  apd  abandoned  by  the  rich.  The  views  of  modern  statesmen  are  limited  and  formal  ;  they  administer  by  mere  rote,  according  to  ordinary  forms,  without  diverging  into  eccentric  suggestions,  or  hitting  on  uncommon  expedients.  They  form  some  vulgar  plan,  and  they  vulgarly  pursue  it.  The  finesse  which  distinguished  the  ancient  school  is  unknown  to  ours.  Force  or  money,  (persuasion  Meyer),  arc  the  two  great  springs  which  move  at  present  the  whe.ls  of  govern government;  ment; government;  and  this  clumsy,  grating  operation,  is  the  primary  cause  that  the  people  begin  to  display  so  frigid  an  indifference  far  national  concerns.  There  is  something  in  it  of  the  brutality  with  which  a  haughty  individual  confers  a  favour;  it  alienates,  instead  of  conciliating  gratitude  or.  applause.  Tit?.  harshness  of  the  manner  precludes  the  possibility  of  affeetionon  the  part  of  the  people,  who  judge  actions  tuore  from  appearance  than  their  utility.  In  free  states,  the  secret  of  government  is  atrec-.  tion;  in  despotic  ones,  terror.  The  latter  has  been  frequently  the  former,  for  the  last  fifteen  years,  never  applied  ;  and  from  that  time  may  be  dated  the  apathy  of  the  multilutle.  They  must  likewise  have  a  material  object  of  their  affections,  and  vpt  an  abstract  one.  The  ancients,  who,  excelled  us  as  much  in  the."
