text
"suppose,  takver  been  seriously  denied,  for  the  last  fifty  yeari  by  persons  most  interested  in  maintaining  it.  This  change  is  to  be  attributed  principally  to)  the  increased  aid  incretteng  influence  of  the  crown,  and  to  the  corrupt  state  of  the  representative  system.  if  the  foran'er  is  to  he  confined  within  the  boundi  Prescribed  by  the  constittition  ;  the  latter  ninsi  undergo  , STYLE=superscript  radical  reform.  Atiuses  iii  every  branch  of  the  adniinistratlon  have  murtiplied,  in  a  proportionate  ratio,.  With  the  accumulating  imperfections  of  the  represehlation,  and  the  monstrous  patronage  of  government;  and  It  is  ludicrous  to  imagine  that  any  solid,  ois  permanent,  advantage;  can  reitult  to  the  people,  as  long  as  Mi...  niters  are  certain  of  having  a  Majority  of  the  House  of  Com Commons  mons Commons  in  favour  of  their  nieasures,  hastrever  unconstitutional  their  principle,  or  ruinous  their  tendency;  That  they  have  had  this  majority,  with  two,  or  thia4  solitary  exceptions,  (and  it  is  painful  to  remark  that  the  fitenSures  then  proposed  were  of  general  titility;  but  crintrary  to  the  wishes  of  crown)  for  the  last  thirty  years;  is  obvious  to  every  erne  who  remembers  the  lorneeiMings  of  Parliaifient  during  that  interval.  That  the  integrity  and  talents  of  the  Inclividilnls,  who  composed  the  respective  aaidlinistrations;  during  that  period,  should  be  so  uncontaminated  and  conspicuous;  that  their  condtict  Would  Stand  the  severest  test  of  examinati3n,  is;  we  are  bold  to  say,,.  one  of  ; STYLE=superscript  the  mist  extratirtlittary  phenoMena  ever  recorded  in  the  •  world.  That  even  their  Motives,  leaving  their  actions  out  of  the.  question,(for  a  ministry  thight  think  honestlji,  kind  rtrt  foolishly);  should  have  no  Other  oliject  but  the  public  good;  wlt  hoot  any  reference  te  their  own  exeluque  advantage,  or  that  of  the  crown---:-Would  afford  a  proof  Of  itemaculate  IllitliS  tetin!  purity,  whith  has  no  parallel  in  our  otNo,  or  the  history  of  a:1)  other  s STYLE=superscript  country.  if,  on  the  contrary;  their  nieasdres  during  that  (law,  have  been  prortiinent  for  telfisltness,  disregard  of  the  pithlic  good,  of  ealtuess,  and  infringethents  on  the  rights  of  the  peiqle  ;  it  must  then  be  acknowledged  that  the  majority  of  the  Corinnons,  who  invariably  sanctioned  all  their  proceedings;  most  have  coni.  pletely  lbst  sight  of  the  principle;  on  which  liarliaments  were  instituted;  and  have  been  mdre  anxious  to  promote  the  partial:  lar  views  of  the  EiecutiVe,  than  to  support  the  rights  and  inter  rests  of  the  people.  If  the  period  should  ever  arrive  when  the  persons,  who  are  called  the  reptesentaties  of  the  people,  repre-:  sent  theni  only  in  name,  but  nut  in  reality;  When  they  are  loll lollcitoes  citoes lollcitoes  tEI  aspire  to  this  honorable  distinction  for  no  other  pur purpose  pose purpose  than  to  promote  their  own  individual  advantage  to  the  Anted Antedvantage  vantage Antedvantage  of  their  constitiwnts--lit  seouldthenbe  the  height  ofextia ofextiavagance  vagance ofextiavagance  to  imagine  that  any  praCtical  good  would  result  to  the  community  from  such  an  institution;  it  would,  en  the  contrary,  he  a  manifest  nuisance;  for  government,  throdgh  the  Medium  of  al  prostituted  parliament;  could,  with  impunity,  he  g,dilty  of  act  4  of  violence.,  which,  had  it  been  purely  despotic,  it  would  not  venture  to  commit;  This  was  verified  during  the  tinauspiciaui  reigns  of  Henry  VIII.  queen  Mary,  and  Charles  11.  After  a  long  interval  of  sllenee  and  indifference,the  country,  at  last;  begins  to  grow  sensible  of  the  inadequacy  of  the  pre=  sent  mode  of  represeothtion;  to  meet  the  original  principle  of  its  institution..  This  IS  one  Of  the  greatest  benefits  re;  suiting  froth  Mr.  N'fardle's  Motion;  and,  we  have  no  doubt  titat•-  •  if  the  public  are  unanimous  and  perseVering,  they  will  mately  triumph  over  intrigue  or  prejudice.  Nobody  will  dare  maintain,  not  eves  the  most  besotted  or  selfish;  that  any  disadvantage  can  occur  to  the  CroWn,  Were  the  people  more  faithfully  represented.  Whoever  advances  so  monstrous  an  opinion,  must  imagine  that  the  interests  of  the  people  and  the  kjthe  are  di•itiott  and  coraplewly  at  s'ariauce..  It  tual  P1_TB00021 '  '  5  '  ,  eg,  t  '  4  •  .1  P1_TB00022 f"
