text
"$6  With  respect  to  what  had  been  said  respecting  the  Catholics  fn  Ireland,  •he  trusted  •it  would  convince  Ministers  that  our  enemy  was  aware  of  our  weak.  side,  and  induce  them  to  etrengthee  it  beyond  the  passer  ofassaalt.  He  believed  that  the  enthusiasm  of  Slain  wat  ritu,  and  would  not  consent  to  shed  gnother  drop  of  Bi4tish  blond  in  the  cause,  unless  a  moral  cer cerfalaty  falaty cerfalaty  of  success  could  be  shewri.  wiro  this  complexion  we  must:come  at  TO  treat  with  France  on  worse  an  4  worse  terms  the  longer  we  ilelayed  agreeing  to  conclude  a  peace.  As  for  the  charge  that  we  ttinullated  wars,  and  then  partook  of  the  plunder  of  Our  allies,  the  Irptlt  of  It  was  proved  in  the'case  of  Holland.  After  taking  fdostionding  and  melancholy  view  of  the  affairs  of  Spain  and  artugal,  he  cenclnded  by  moving'  an  amendment  to STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  Ad STYLE=superscript  d  ress, STYLE=superscript  ,thanking  his  Majesty  fhr  the  communication  of  the  Papers  ;-  4ssuring  him  that  they  would  haye  regretted'  extremely  had  the  cause  of  Spain  been  ahandoned,  but  that  they  did  see  that  such  Oandopmeta  was  called  for  by  the  other'Relligerents  t—that  the  ote  trqnsraitted  by  his  Majesty's  Secretary  for  Foreigb  Affairs  yitts  mow's('  1  impolitic,  awl  unnecessary,  for  the  course  of  Spin's%  ifidependance;  that  the  negociatinn  ought  to  have  been  farther  entered  into,  in  order  to  ascertain  if  anY  bent  6t  could  possibly  accrue  from  it,  and  to  beg  his  Majesty  to  avail  himself  of  any  fulnre  opportunity  otlqed  of  concluding  a  peace,  con confistent  fistent confistent  with)  thehenour  of  the  country  anti  the  dignity  of  his  The  Amendment  was  negatived  without  a  division,  and  the  Addreds'w  ashen  put  and  agreed  to.—Adjourned.  •  .  •  WEDNESDAY,  FEB.  t.  On  tho  motion  of  Mr.  ADAM  a  new  writ  ergs  ordered  for  the  borniigli  of  'Aylesbury,  in  the'  County  of  Bnciiinghain,  in  room  of  file  gnu.  hNor  Cavendish,  kleceascd.  •  •  •  •  DUKE  OF  YORK.  Yr,  IVlant.r  having  moved  the  order  of  the  day  for  a  Corn-  Rittee  of  the  whole'  'to  investigate  the  conduct  of  his  oyal  llighpeo  tOe  Phke  of  York,lhe  Speaker  left  the  Chair,  111  and  op  the  Q6Oll  of  *Mr.  Wardle,  Mr.  Whittler)  was  called  to  preside  Inthetommittee.  111r,Wartnt  , STYLE=superscript  t;  wishe'd  to  take  no  advantage  whatever,  but  to  leave  the  question  to  stapd  or  fall  . STYLE=superscript  by  -  its  own  merits  (hear!  Acid  )  •  All  he  had  -done  wai  la  - STYLE=superscript  offer  himself  as  accuser  of  ,  .  he  novo  puke  'on  grounds  Which  had  cone  to  his  'know 'knowedge,  edge, 'knowedge,  and  from'reports  Which  ought  no't  to  pa=s  anootied  in  hat  lioase,*  and  Which,  if  true,  caned  loudly  for  . STYLE=superscript  ilie'ir  inter interference.  ference. interference.  •  Much  had  beep  said  of  Jacobinism,  much  had  been  paid  of  the  liceptiouSt4ss  of  the  press;  and  of  ri•  conspiracy  against  the  fam'ily  of  Itrunswrck.  lie  had  neither  taken  up  Teports  circulated  through  the  Medium  of  the  press,  nor  em employed  ployed employed  the  press  in  his  accu  s  ation  of  the  Royal  liuke.  Ile  prufesie4.  himielf  *t9  be  pa  enemy  to  korrUptlon,  as  every  loan  in  that:  house  ought  to  be,  but  he  was  Ito  enemy  to  the  tilustrious  House  - STYLE=superscript  of  Brunswick,  ficit  an  assertion  'night  ip  )4ve  beer  fnqui  ved  up  by  sinhethiog  lilt  e  proof,  er  to  have  hern  wholly  avoided.  N  o  Man  in  the  II  ouse  would  tie  hold  enough  to  liay,  that  any'rank,  howeier  illwArions,  should  shelter  the  in individual  dividual individual  who  was  guilty  of  abuses  from  punishment,  and  much  less  screen  . STYLE=superscript  hint  from  imoiry.  The  poison  then  to'  w  hose  lot  it  Fell  to  take  up  a  iuestion  of  this  kind  was  to  be  considered  in  a  plii4le  li4ht,  and  sheltered  in  the  outset,  at  least  from  any  lin linurvient,  urvient, linurvient,  of  unfair.  rr  o  litives.  If  there  were  any  Jacobins  •noW  in  pie  'coui:tey,  it  would'  be  their  wish  rather  that  corruption  ihould  flourish.  It  was  to  save,  and  not  to  ruin  the  country  ;  it  was  to  render  the  Ciqvviliment  more  permanent  and  rcspectahle,  4  11  4  . STYLE=superscript  00  t  4  degrade  and  ultimately  overturn  it,  that  such  inquiries  its  be  proposed_  were  to  he  adopted:  The  Honour:ole  Member  filen  uthertcd  to  what  had  fallen  on  the  former  night  from  an  honourable  and  learned  Gentleman  now  in  the  linase  '(  Mr.  .Adailstf•  that  Ceutleman,  he  observed,  had  stated,  that  for  the  fastois  teen  years  he  had  been  intimately  actinaintrd  'with  all  416  7  c4sti'  A  ry  transa:tions  oc  the  illostrious'  Duke,  and  that  •  .  •  .  slo  . STYLE=superscript  ..glta't  •  period  no  ;uclt  l  i  •ansactions  as  he  had  stated  had  bode  to  4is  knoiviedv,  -  •Ile  vs  ould  remind  the  learned  Gentle Gentle&amp;lei,  &amp;lei, Gentle&amp;lei,  ii4mc.ver„  that  a  prceniary  transaction,  of  a  much  greater  024f  r  viji0  , STYLE=superscript  'lie  Ilia  .  Mentionest,  hsni  °  come  to  that'  learned  .  .  .•  ca  an  e  knowledg,  in  consequence  of  w  hich  n  breach  had  tsilten  place  betweeo  the  illitstrioas  ptike  and  the  Lady  he  bad  already  hod  occaiimO  to  oientiim;  lie  was'  aware  how  mach  it  5  t  5  . STYLE=superscript  ..4  , STYLE=superscript  s  tat:  interest  of  Ma  ay  tiiidiseourage  the  prosecution  of  this  in inetiii  etiii inetiii  ri  . STYLE=superscript  1  (h  jr  strung  mrirks  u  .  r  dissalikractiogieei•e  ea'petsied:from  * ?gas  of  'the  Jicuse)  i  he  was  sure,  how:tver  )  . STYLE=superscript  that  , STYLE=superscript  Ither  ,  •  .  FEB.  5.  considerations  would  prevail  with  the  House,  and  a  %as  his  wish  to  declare,  through  the  medium  of  that  HOuse,  to  the  country  and  the  people  at  large,  the  honour  and  integrity  of  a  Britis4  Parliament.  In  the  prosecution  of  the  inquiry,  he  would  therefore  throw  hinit.elf  on  the  candour  and  indulgence  of  the  House,  and  would  proceed  to  call  in  his  witnesses,  Mr.  NV  Artntr  accordingly  read  the  paragraph  in  the  Gazette  of  the  6th  of  July,  15,5,  stating,  that  Henry  Rowley  Knight,  captain  of  the  sth  Dragoons,  was  to  he  major  .  ,  of  the  56th  regi regiment  ment regiment  of  font,  vice  Major  Brook,  who  exchanges.  Examination  of  Dr.  AM  DREW  Tip'  NNE.  Q.  I  wish  to  ask  you'  Whether  you  attended  Mrs.  Clark;  in  July,  180  ;  I  do  not  recollect  July,  1805,  more  particu particularly  larly particularly  than  'any  other  time  ;  I  have  known  Mrs.  Clarke  fur  these  seven  or  eight  years.  Q.  Did  yon  ever  apply  by  desire  of  any  person  to  Mrs.  Clarke  for  an  exchange  betwpen  Lieut.-Colonel  Knight  and  Colonel  Brook  ?  A.  I  applied  to  Mrs.  Clarke  in  consequence  of  an  ap application  plication application  from  Mr.  R.  Knight,  the  brother  of  Colonel  Knight,  and  did  Speak:to  Mrs.'Clarke  respecting  that  exchange.  Q.  What  passed  on  that  subject  between  Mrs.  Clarke  and  you  ?  K.  I  told  her  that  I  was  authorised  to  say  that  she  would  re receil4a  ceil4a receil4a  sum  of  .money  on  the  exchange  being  effected,  and  speci  , STYLE=superscript  lied  a  sum  of  200/.  _  _  _  Q.  For  what  purpose  was  this  sum  of  money  offered  ?—A.  To  induce  Mrs.  Clarke  to  expedite  the  exchange,  and  in  order  to  re,  move  delays  that  seemed  to  be  in  the  way.  .  Q.  Thropgh  what  medium  was  it  expected  that  Mrs.  Clarke  should  expedite  that  exchange  ?  A.  I  suppete  it  is  pretty  well  known.  •  Q.  'Was  it  not  in  consequence  of  Mrs.  Clarke's  connection  with  the  Duke  of  York  that  you  made  the  application  ?  A.  it  was  certainly  in  consequence  of  her  connection  with  a  certain  great  personage,  or  an  application  to  her  would  not  'have  . STYLE=superscript  been  supposed  necessary.  Q.  Did  Mrs.  Clarke  announce  to  Mr.  Knight  the  circumstance  of  'the  exchange  being  gazette('  ?—A.  She  sent  to  my  house  the  Gazette  announcing  the  exchange  '  though  no  money  passed  through  my  hands,  and  I  sent  the  Gazette  to  the  parties  can.:  corned.  Q.  Did  Mr.  IL  Knight  alone  authorise  yeti  to  mention'  the  200/.  or  was  Colonel  Knight  also  a  party  in  The  transaction  A.  In  my  application  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  was  entirely  influenced  by  Mr.  R.  Knight.  His  wife  wag  a  Patient  of  *mitie;  and  wished  to  oblige  him  as  my  ftind,  Wish  Colonel  Knight  I.  was  not  so  well  acquainted,  Q.  Was  Lieut.-Colonel  Knight  present  when  his  brother  de desired  sired desired  you  to  offer  the  2001,  ?  A.  I.  cannot  recollect  that.  He  wag  Sometimes  present,  and  sometimes  not,  when  the  sulciect  was  talked  of;  but  whether  he  was  present  at  any  tune  whey  the  2001.  was  ineoimied,  has  escaped  my  memory.*  Q.  (by  Sir  F,  Rurdett)  Did  you  reqeest•  Mn,s  Clarke  to  ap  ply  to  Or  Duke  of  York  to  expedite  the  exchange  it  tensequence  of  her  receiving  the  2001  .  ?  •  The  thing  is.understood  ;  1  would'  not  have  applied  to  Mrs.  Clarke  Weis  she  had  possessed  the  .  •  ;  necessary  means.  Q.  What  were  the  mr.ans  you  understand  she  possessed  A.  It  was  understood  at  the  lime  she  had  some  ititlitenee  wild  a  great  personage.  Q.  (by  Sir  F.  purdett)  Did  yon  not  apply  to  Mrs.  Clarke  to  ask  the  Duke  of  York  to  expedite  the  exchange?  A.  I  did.  Q.  Was  the  2001.  ofered  for  that  purpose?  .  A.  For  that  sole  purrice.  Q.  Was  the  name  of  the  Duke  of  York  mentioned  iu  this  con conversation  versation conversation  with  Mrs.  Clarke?  A.  I  cannot  4y..  Q.  (by  Sir  J.  Hall)  Who  did  you  mean  whet)  you  said  Mrs.  Cliirke  had  some  influence  with  a  great  personage  ?  A.  The  Commander  in  Chief  of  course.  •  C.  (by  Mr.  Wardle)  At..the  time  the  exchange  was  spoken  of,  did  you  give'apy  thing  it  writing  to  Sirs.  Clarke?  A.  did;  gave  her  the  names  of  the  parties  on  a  slip  of  paper.  I  either  %%  rote  then  down,  or  she  did  it  herself.  Q.  (by  sirT.Turfon)  At  'any  subsequent  time  did  Mrs.  Clarke  sayshe  had  applied  to  the  bake  of  York  on  this  business  ?  A.'  The  sending  the  Gazette  is  all  I  knew  about  it.  '  •  '  Q.  hid  Mrs.  Clarke  ever  say  that  the  exchange  was  accom accomplkhed  plkhed accomplkhed  by  her  means?  A.  Mrs.  Clarke  accompanied  the  Gazette  ith  a  Note,  to  say  the  exchange  was  accomplished  ;  that'  she  was  goiot  out  of  town  is  a  day  (ir  two,  and  that  the  2001.  would  be  very  :i.nVenient.  '  9.  Wye  you  preserved  the  note  ?  .  A.  No,  I  setilt,  with  the  i  •  Cootie  to  the  parties.  (lIV  Mr.  Wardle).  Did  ytm  know  of  Mrs.  ;Clarke's  living  with  )  and  under  the  immediate'  'protection  bf  IM"
