text
"MARCH  26.  MARY  BATEMAN,  THE  SORCERESS.  ,  LEEDS,  MARCH  18,.—Tke  trial  of  Mary  Bateman  for  the  'Wilful  Murder,  of  Relaice:i  • STYLE=superscript  Perigo,  wife  of  William  Perigo,  of  Brainley,  near  this  town,  commenced  yesterday  morning,  and  continued  until  near  nine  o'clock  at  night.  The  jury  without  retiring  found  the  prisoner  guilty.  The  Judge  in  a  most  impres impressive  sive impressive  Manner  passed  sentence  of  Death  upon  this  wretched  wo woman,  man, woman,  and  as  isusnal  in  cases  of  Murder  ordered  her  body  to  be  given  to  the  - STYLE=superscript  Surgeons  for  dissection.  The  Prisoner  todelay  exe execution  cution execution  pleaded  pregnancy,  on  which  a  jury  of  matrons  was  di directed  rected directed  to  be  immediately  impannelled,  and  to  prevent  the  women  from  leaving  court  all  the  doors  were  ordered  to  he  closed.  A.  jury  being  formed,  and  charged  in  the  usual  manner,  retired  for  the  purpose  of  discharging  their  duty  and  found  that  she  was  not  with  quick  child.  The  execution  will  of  course  take  place  on  Monday.  A  singular  circumstance  occurred  on  the  trial  of  John  Leng,  of  the  city  of  York,  who  was  indicted  for  wilfully,  maliciously,  and  or  cutting  John  Crosby  of  the  said  city,  labourer,  over  his  left  eye  with  a  pitchfork,  whereby  he  did  him  bodily  harm  that  his  life  was  despaired  of.—The  Judge  having  charged  the  Jury,  they  retired  a  considerable  time,  and  returned  a  verdict  of---ruanstaughtcr.  His  Lordship  _observed  they  had  ails-spent  their  time,  as  the  man  was  still  living,  the  prisoner  could  not.be  guilty  of  manslaughter  reconsider  your  On  a  question  from  a  juryman,  his  Lordship,  said,  they  44 STYLE=superscript  were  bound  to  return  a  verdict—guilty  or  not  They  waited  some  time  in  the  Box,  and  then  his  Lord Lordship  ship Lordship  requested  them  again  to  retire,  Which  they  did,  and  at  length  returned  a  verdict  of—not  guilty.  On  which  his  Lord Lordship  ship Lordship  said,  It  is  your  verdict,  not  mine  i  how  you  can  acquit  your  consciences  lamat  a  loss  to  He  then  addressed  the  prisoner  The  reason  why  the  Jury  have  acquitted  you,  I  cannot  discover;  you  have  had  a  narrow  escape';  therefore  let  me  advise  you  to  be  very  circumspect  in  your  future  con conduct  duct conduct  ;  for  if  any  thing  of  this  sort  happen  again,  you  can  hardly  expert  to  meet  with  such  a  STILTING  Merest.—On  Friday  last  a  very  extraordinary  -wager  was  decided  upon  the  road  between  Cambridge  and  Hun Huntiugdon.  tiugdon. Huntiugdon.  A  Gentleman  of  the  former  place  had  betted  a  consi considerable  derable considerable  sum  of  mousy  that  he  would  go  a  yard  from  the  ground  upon  stilts,  the  di,trance  of  twelve  miles,  within  the  space  of  four  hours  and  a  halt;  - STYLE=superscript  no  stoppage  was  to  be  allowed,  except  merely  the  time  taken  up  in  exchanging  one  pair  of  stills  for  another,  and  even  then  his  feet  were  not  to  touch  the  ground.  He  started  at  the  second  mile  stone  from  Cambridge,  on  the  Huntingdon  road,  to  go  six  miles  out  and  six  in  ;  the  first  he  performed  in  one  hour  and  fifty  minutes,  and  did  the  distance  back  in  two  hours  and  three  minutes,  so  that  he  went  the  whole  in-  three  hours  arid  fifty-three  minutes,  having  thirty-seven  minutes  to  spare  beyand  the  time  allawed  him;  he  appeared  a  good  deal  fatigued,  and  his  hands,  we  understand,  were  much  •blistered,  from  the  continued  pressure  upon  one  part.  This,  we  believe,  is  the  first  •  performance  of  the  kind  ever  attempted  ;  but  as  novelty  appears  to  attract,  as  well  as  direct,  the  manners  of  the  age,  stating  may  possibly  become  as  fashionable  in  these,  as  stilting  leas  in  former  times.  A  few  days  since  -Mr.  Jup  p,  a  respectable  farmer,  at  Slinfold,  near  Horsham,  - STYLE=superscript  on  entering  one  of  his  barns,  heard  the  crying  of  an  infant,  which  attracted  his  attention,  and  at  length  led  him  to  a  corner  of  the  barn,  where  he  discovered  a  rush  basket,  carefully  covered  with  a  handkerchief,  which  he  cast  off,  when  to  !  two  lovely  babes,  a  boy  and  girl,  about  a  month  old,  pre presented  sented presented  thearselves  to  the  astonished  farmer,  who,  however,  im immeJtatolv  meJtatolv immeJtatolv  conveyed  the  basket  with  its  contents  to  his  wife.  tell telling  ing telling  her,  as  she  had  ofteu  wished  for  children,  he  was  now  enabled-to  present  her  with  a  and  related  the  attendaut  circumstances,  when  Mrs.  Jupp  received  the  foundlings  with  maternal  kindness,  and  procured  a  careful  nurse  for  them  in  the  village,.  where  they  are  now  living  and  likely  to  do  well.  The  infants  were  neatly  dressed,  and  bad  each  a  change  of  baby  - STYLE=superscript  linen  lying  by  them  _in  the  basket.  They  have  every  appear appearance  ance appearance  of  being  twins,  and  were  baptized  at  a  neighbouring  church  (the  Ministers  lady  - STYLE=superscript  being  one  of  the  sponcers)  by  the  names  of  Moses  Rush  March,  and  Caroline  Rush  March.  Proper  means  have  been  taken  to  trace  nut  their  unnatural  parents,  but  no  dis discovery  covery discovery  has  brCil  sziade;  oar  maa  to  whom  so9picioq  was  at-  207  tached,  was  in  consequence  taken  up,  and  underwent  an  exami examinution  nution examinution  before  a  Magistrate  at  Horsham,  but  as  nothing  appeared  to  justify  thesuspicion,  he  was  dismissed.  LoNcr.vtrY.--There  is  now  living  in  good  health,  at  Mat.  ton's  Corner,  in  the  parish  of  Bolney  Suffolk,  a  man  named  Chatfield,  who  in  December  last,  attained  the  nob  of  101  years.  and  under  circumstances  not  the  most  favourable  to  such  an  ex extended  tended extended  period  of  existence,  as  after  excessive  drinking,  or  when  summoned  to  rest  by  the  fatigue  of  labour,  he  had  bed  long  in  the  habit  of  taking  it  as  convenience  offered,  sometimes  on  the  surface  of  a  reeking  dunghill,  and  at  others  on  the  mucky  hot.  torn  of  a  leaky  hovel,  for  to  the  constitution  of  Morucbey  (that  being  his  nick-uatne)  they  were  alike  harmless.  Some  years  ago,  the  old  man's  habitation  was  burht  down,  but  to  prevent  the  full  operation  of  that  fiery  ejectment,  he  took  pos'se-ision  of  a  part  of  the  ruins,aid  retained  ir,  as  hisprincipal  lodging-place,  during  the  whole  of  the  ensuing  winter.  Last  week  some  evil-dit.posed  persons  entered  .the  parish  church  of  Great  Hrington,  in  lionhamptonshire,  and  broke  open  the  family  vault  of  the  Right  Hon.  Earl  Spencer,  when  they  stripped  the  coffins  contained  therein  of  their  'plates,  handles  s  ,  and  ornamental  furniture.  I'o  L  IC  .E  . STYLE=superscript  .  MARLBOROUGH-STR  MET.  SETTING  FIRE  TO  A  DWELLING  HOUSR.—An  oilman,  *fro  resided  in  John's  -court,  Golden-square,  was  charged  by  hit  neighbours  with  setting  tire  to  his  apartments  in  the  above  court,  on  Thursday  last.  It  appeared,  by  the  evidence  of  a  Mrs.  Pratt;  and  other  neighbours,  that  on  an  alarm  of  fire  prevailing  at  eleven  o'clock  on  Thursday  morning,  the  apartments  rented  by  the  pri prisoner  soner prisoner  were  broke  open,  and  a  fire  of  combustibles,  such  as  oil.  bladders,  gunpowder,  tax,  &amp;c,  was  discovered  on  the  floor  is  the  middle  of  the  room.  The  wainscoting  of  the  room  was  on  fire  in  every  part  ;  and  from  other  circumstances  it  was  suspect.  , STYLE=superscript  ed  that  it  was  wilfully  set  on  fire.  The  prisoner  was  - STYLE=superscript  seen  to  go  out  of  the  room  ahout  a  quarter  of  an  hour  before  the  fire  wav  discovered,  and  part  of  his  goods  were  removed,  - STYLE=superscript  but  he  was  not  ensured.  The  - STYLE=superscript  prisoner  was  committed  for  trial;  AH  UNEXPEcIED  111:ET1NG.--1.11  the.obove  Office,  a  re.:  spectahie  publican,  a  Freeholder  of  Middlesex,  who  load  come  there  on  business,  beheld  at  the  bar  his  own  wife,  wbo  elop  e  d  sixteen  months  ago  with  a  Serjeant  of  the  Guards,  and  bad  Pot  .since  been  heard  of.  She  appeared  there  to  perfer  a  complait4  against  another  paramour,  with  whom  she  had  eloped  from  the  Sedeant.  She  fell  into  a  swoon  on  beholding  her  husband,  and  after  retiring  from  the  Office,  she  was  put  into  a  coach,  and  cow  veyed  away  by  her  lawful  ou  tier.  4CCI.DEA7SS  OFFEZb  CES,  tfc.  Au  inquisition  was  taken  yestcreay  in  Great  Cm-am-street,  before  G.  Hodgson,  Esq.  Cormer  for  Middlesex,  on  the  body  of  a  new-born  infant,  found  in  the  shore  of  a  house  in  the  above  street.  There  was  no  direct  evidence  to  prove  how,  or  in  what  manner,  the  child  came  into  the  shore;  but  suspicion  attached  Itself  very  strongly  to  a  female  servant,  out  of  place,  who  bad  clandestinely  left  her  lodgings,  at  a  baker's  shop,  on  which  pre•  mises  the  child  was  found,  and  she  bas  since  been  apprehended  and  committed,  from  Hatton-Garden  Office.  'the  Coroner's  very  diet  was  delivered  agreeable.  to  the  testimony  of  two  stlrgeont,  That  the  child  had  died  from  inattention  tit  the  birth.  A  family  consisting  of  inn.;  persons  of  the  name  of  Smith  were  drowned  last  week  on  the  Cornwall  coast,  in  consegnence  of  the  incursions  of  the  sea,  which  swept  away  their  dwelling  in  the  night  of  the  19th  in,t,  The  house  was  situated  on  an  eminenoe  of  a  hundred  feet  adjoining  Acliftwhich  gave  way,  and  thus  de destroyed  stroyed destroyed  the  sniferers.  On  Friday  se'tmight,  a  singular  accident  happened•in  Covent  Arden.—=The  driver  of  a  market-cart,  who  had  been  wantonly  heating  his  horse,  TV  as  in  the  act  of  cutting  the  animal  with  a  coach-whip,  when  the  lash  caught  bim  round  the  rrck,  and  the  shock  locked  his  jaw  . STYLE=superscript  .  In  this  situation  he  was  conveyed  to  a  surgeon  for  assistance,  and  his  jaw  was  unlocked  ;  but  it  locked  again  the  same  night,  and  he  continued  ins  dan  ;  ;rrous  state  till  Sunday  morning  %%ben  he  expired.  Ile  has  left  a  .  wife  and  se several  veral several  children.  An  infant  child,  about  a  month  old,  was  found  nt  the  door  of  Mr.  fledge,  in  Oxford-street,  at  seven  o'clock  on  Thursday  even— evening,  ing, evening,  with  n,  note  praying  for  the  welfare  of  the  child  at  the  hands  of  some  kind  Christians,  and  accounting  for  its  exposure  from  wretched  poverty  ;  no  trace  has  yet  been  discovered  of  the  au aunatural  natural aunatural  mother  the  child  wag  conveyed  to  the  poor  house."
