text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  FEB.  12.  habit  indifferent  to  the  fluctuations  of  our  time;  hut  if  any  love  of  liberty  survive.,  if  any  attachment  to  our  institu institutions  tions institutions  and  soil  still  warms  our  breasts,  we  will  commence  a  vigilant  survey  of  our  concerns,  and  examine,  with  a.  jealous  eye,  the  conduct  and  merits  of  those  to  whose  ma management  nagement management  they  are  confided.  The  characteristic  mark  of  the  phenomena  of  our  time  is  the  celerity  with  which  they  surprise  us  :  we  must  be,  therefore,  prepared  for  their  appearance,  or  a  moral  certainty  exists,  that  we  are  over.  whelined  by  their  rapidity  and  unexpected  approach.  Accounts  have  likewise  been  received  from  General  DoYLE,  of  whose  fate  some  apprehensions  were  enter entertertained.  tertained. entertertained.  This  gallant  Officer  accompanied  the  armies  of  CAST.  NOS  and  P  .I.AFox,  and  we  are  happy  to  state  that  he  arrived  at  Tortosa,  from  whence  his  last  letters  were  dated.  lie  continues  to  entertain  the  most  favourable  opinion  of  the  Spaniards,  and  says  that  the  enthusiasm  of  the  people  of  the  South  is  as  ardent,  as  it  bad  been  in  the  commencement  of  the  war  against  France.  The  Christiana  has  arrived  at  Cowes  from  Stockholm.  The  information  she  brings,  absolutely  contradicts  those  rumours  of  discontent  -which  was  said  to  exist  to  a  Very  alarming  degree,  among  the  Swedish  nobility.  On  the  con contrary  trary contrary  the  greatest  tranquility  prevails;  and  every  class  of  the  community  was  eager  to  assure  the  SOVEREIGN  of.4heir  loyalty,  and  to  give  him  marks  of  their  zeal  and  readiness  to  assist  him  in  the  prosecution  of  the  honourable  conflict  he  is  engaged  .  in.  A  Gentleman  is  arrived  in  town  who  left  Elsineur  on  the  6th  ult.  states,  that  a  courier  had  reached  that  place  the  day  before  from  Stockholm,  who  reported  that  the  most  vigorous  preparations  were  making  in  Sweden  for  carrying  on  the  war  against  Russia  ;  and  that  the  King  had  refused,  in  the  most  peremptory  manner,  to  listen  to  any  accomo.  dation  proposed  by  the  Emperor  ALEILANDER  4  which  did  not  stipulate  the  restitution  of  Finland,  and  does  not  admit  the  principle  of  Commercial  intercourse  between  Great  Bri Britain  tain Britain  and  Sweden.  This  Gentleman  is  likewise  said  to  con contradict  tradict contradict  the  accounts  in  the  last  German  papers,  referring  to  the  pretended  dissatisfaction  of  the  Swedish  Nobility.  Those  persons  know  little  of  the  Swedish  history,  who  give  credit  to  every  absurd  talc  of  conspiracies  in  that  country,  in  consequence  of  actual  hostilities  with  Russia  and  Denmark.  The  hatred  which  the  Swedes  entertain  for  the  Russians,  is  inveterate;  and  their  animosity  against  the  Danes  is  equally  rooted,  but  with  this  distinguishing  character,  that  it  is  blended  with  the  most  supreme  con contempt.  tempt. contempt.  The  people,  who  are,  comparatively  speaking,  the  poorest  in  Europe,  may,  perhaps,  express  some  discon discontent  tent discontent  in  consequence  of  the  burtheas  occasioned  by  the  pre present  sent present  war  ;  but  their  national  antipathies  will  render  them  insensible  to  its  pressure,  and  they  will  contribute  with  alacrity  to  any  measure  which  favours  this  passion."
