text
"JAN.  I.  it  would  be  well  worth  hazarding  to  this  honour.  it  country  It  is  impossible  to  proceed  much  further  after  the  fore foregoing  going foregoing  reflections.  We  will  leave  to  our  readers  to  ant;ci ant;cipate  pate ant;cipate  the  consequences  of  this  energetic  policy  ;  and  will  only  add,  that  what  we  advanced,  difficult  as  it  may  ap appear,  pear, appear,  is  by  no  means  ..practicable.  One  great  effort  made,  and  that  formidable  army  will  be  able,  before  three  months,  to  tear  from  the  brow  of  an  insolent  conqueror  the  laurels  he  now  wears,  and  inflict  on  him  the  punishment  his  crimes  and  his  atrocities  so  justly  merit.  FOREIGN  INTELLIGENCE.  FROX  THE  FRENCH  PAPERS.  FOURTEENTH  BULLETIN  OF  THE  ARMY  OF  SPAIN.  MADRID,  DEC.  5.----The  2d  at  noon  his  Majesty  arrived  in  person  on  the  heights  w  hich  impend  over  Madrid,  on  which  were  already  placed  the  divisions  of  dragoons  olGenerals  Latour  Mau Mauhoug,  houg, Mauhoug,  and  Lahoussaye,  and  the  imperial  horse-guards.  The  anniversary  of  the  coronation,  that  epoque  which  has  si  g  nalised  so  many  days  fur  ever  fortunate  for  France,  awakene  d  in  all  hearts  the  most  agreeable  recollections,  and  inspired  all  the  troops  with  an  enthusiasm  which  manifested  itself  in  a  thousand  exclamations.  The  weather  was  beautiful,  and  like  that  enjoyed  in  France  in  the  month  of  May.  The  Marshal.  Duke  of  Istria  sent  to  summon  the  town,  where  a  Military  Junta  was  formed,  .ander  the  presidency  of  the  Marquis  of  Castelaur,  who  had  under  his  orders  General  Morla,  Captain-General  of  Anda Andalusia.  lusia. Andalusia.  The  town  contained  a  number  of  'armed  peasants,  as assembled  sembled assembled  from  all  quarters,  6000  troops  of  the  line,  and  100  pieces  of  cannon.  Sixty  thousand  men  were  in  arms.  Their  cries  were  heard  on  every  side  :  the  bells  of  200  churches  rung  altogether;  and  every  thing  presented  theappearance  of  disorder  and  madness.  The  General  of  the  troops  of  the  line  appeared  at  the  advanced  posts  to  answer  the  summons  of  the  Duke  of  Istria.  .He  was  accompanied  by  30  men  of  the  people,  whose  dress,  looks,  and  ferocious  language,  recalled  the  recollection  of  the  assassins  of  September.  When  the  Spanish  General  was  asked  whether  he  meant  to  expose  women,  children,  and  old  men  to  the  horrors  of  an  assault,  he  manifested  secretly  the  grief  with  which  he  was  penetrated;  he  made  known  by  signs,  that  he,  as  well  as  all  the  honest  men  of  Madrid,  groaned  under  oppression  !  and  when  he  raised  his  voice,  his  words  were  dictated  by  the  wretches  who  watched  over  him.  No  doubt  could  be  enter entertained  tained entertained  of  the  excess  to  which  the  tyranny  of  the  multitude  was  carried  when  they  saw  him  write  down  all  his  words,  and  caused  the  record  to  he  verified  by  the  assassins  who  surrounded  him.  The  aid-de-camp  of  the  Duke  of  Istria,  who  had  been  sent  into  the  town,  was  seized  by  men  of  the  lowest  class  of  penpie,  and  was  about  to  be  massacred,  hen  the  troops  of  the  line,  indignant  at  the  outrage,  took  him  under  their  protection,  and  caused  him  to  be  restored  to  his  General.  4  butcher's  boy  from  Estremadura,  who  commanded  one  of  the  gates,  had  the  audacity  to  require  that  the  Duke  of  Istria  should  go  himself  into  the  town  with  his  e  ,ues  blindfolded.  General  Mont Montbran  bran Montbran  rdected  this  presumptuous  demand  with  indignation.  He  teas  immediately  surrounded,  and  effected  his  escape  only  by  draw drawing  ing drawing  his  sword.  He  narrowly  escaped  falling  a  victim  to  the  im imprudence  prudence imprudence  with  which  he  had  forgot  .that  he  had  not  to  make  war  trit*  civilized  enemies.  A  little  time  after,  some  deserters  from  the  Walloon  Guards  same  to  the  camp.  Their  depositions  convinced  us  that  the  people  of  property,  and  honest  men,  were  without  influence;  and  it  was  to  be  concluded  that  conciliation  was  altogether  im impo-sible.  po-sible. impo-sible.  The  Marquis  of  Perales,  a  reputable  man,  who  had  hitherto  appeared  to  enjoy  the  confidence  of  the  people,  had  been,  on  the  day  before  this,  accused  of  putting  sand  in  the  cartridges.  He  was  immediately  strang  led  .  It  was  determined  that  the  car cartridges  tridges cartridges  should  be  re  -  ma  de;  3  or  4000  monks  were  employed  upon  this  work  at  the  Retiro.  All  the  palaces  and  houses  were  or ordered  dered ordered  to  be  open  to  furnish  provisions  at  discretion.  Therrench  infantry  was  still  three  leagues  from  Madrid.  The  Emperor  raw:rived  the  evening  in  reconnoitring  the  town,  and  deciding  a  plati  of  attack,  consistent  with  the  cousidet  mita'  due  to  the  great  saintlier  of  honest  people  all  N  a;s  ta  be  found  in  a  great  capital.  :Wh:c+  t.r~..  TIIE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  To  take  Madrid  by  assaultagekt  -  be.a.asilltary  operation  of  little  difficulty  ;  but  to  eogage  that  great  city  to  surrender,  by  employing  alternately  force  aed  persuasion.  and  hr  rescuing  the  people  of  property  - STYLE=superscript  ,  and  real  good  men,  frmn  the  oppression  under  which  they  premed  ;  this  V%  a::  t.  lidt  W  :is  trails  oittiratt..  All  the  exertions  of  the  Emperor,  during  these  two  days,  bad  en  other  end.  They  .have  been  crowned  with  the  greatest  *access.  _  At  seven  o'clock  the  division  Lap;ssi  of  the  corps  of  the  Duke  of  Belluno  arrived.  The  moon  shone  with  a  :cri  s  otness  that  seemed  to  prolong  the  day.  The  Emperor  ordered  the  General  of  Brigade  Maison  to  take  possession  of  the  suburbs,  and  charged  the  General  of  Brigade  Lauriston  to  support  him  in  tae  enter enterprize,  prize, enterprize,  with  four  pieces  of  artillery  belougieg  to  the  guards.  The  slurp  shooters  of  the  .16th  reginceol  took  possesion  of  some  houses,  and,  in  particular,  of  the  grand  cemetry.  At  the  first  fire,  the  enemy  sheaved  as  much  row  ardicc  as  he  did  of  arro arrogance  gance arrogance  all  the  day.  The  fluke  of  Benumb  employed  all  the  night  in  placing  his  artillery  in  the  posts  designed  for  the  Road:.  At  midnight  the  Prince  of  Neufchatel  sent  to  Aladtid  a  Spanish  Lieutenant  Colonel  of  Artillery,  who  had  been  taken  at  Sono,-  sierra,  and  who  saw  with  al'right  the  obstinacy  of  his  fellow fellowcitizens.  citizens. fellowcitizens.  He  took  charge  of  the  nunexed  Letter,  :  I  NN.  1.  On  'the  Scl,  at  nine  in  the  morning,  the  same  slag,;  of  truce  returned  to  the  head-quarters  with  the  letter  No.  '2.  13ut  the  General  of  Brigade  Lenamont,  an  Officer  . STYLE=superscript  of  great  merit,  had  airendy  placed  30  pieces  of  artillery,  and  had  commenced  a  very  smart  fire,  which  made  a  breach  in  the  walls  of  the  itetiro.  The  sharp-shooters  of  the  division  of  Vilatte  having  passed  the  breach,  their  battalion  followed  them,  and  in  less  than  a  quar quarter  ter quarter  of  an  hour  1000  men,  oho  defended  the  Retina  were  knocked  on  the  head.—The  palace  of  the  actin),  the  ha  w  tant  posts  of  the  Ohservatory,  of  the  porcelain  otantcactors,  of  the  grand  barrack,  the  Hotel  of  Medina  Cell,  and  all  the  out outlets  lets outlets  which  had  been  fortified,  were  taken  by  our  troops.  041  another  side,  20  pieces  of  cannou  of  tlieguards,  aceompaeied  by  light  troops,  ,brew  shells,  and  attracted  the  attention  of  the  enemy  by  a  false  atttvl.  It  would  have  been  di  ffi  cult  to  form  a  conception  of  the  di--  order  that  reigned  in  Madrid,  if  a  greater  number  of  prisoners.  arriving  in  succession,.  had  not  given  an  account  of  the  frightful  scenes  of  every  description,  of  which  that  capital  prese:ned  the  spectacle.  They  have  intersec  teat  the  streets,  erected  paravis  on  the  houses  ;  barricades  of  hales  of  wool,  and  of  ..atoa,  icaj  been  formed,  and  the  wit:do  is  had  been  stoisped  with  Iti..?-  trasses.  Those  of  the  inhabitants  who  despaired  ol  a  successial  resistance  were  flying  into  the  fields;  others,  who  had  reser..  ed  some  share  of  reason,  and  who  preferred  appearing  in  the  aidst  of  their  prorrty  before  a  generoas  (witty,  to  abandoning  it  to  the  pillage  of  their  fellow  citi:xas,  dem:coded  that  they  should  not  expose  themselves  to  an  assault.  Those  who  were  strangers  to  the  town,  or  who  had  Nothing  to  lose,  were  fors  defence  to  the  last  extremity.  accused  the  troops  of  the  line  of  treason,  attsl  obliged  them  to  continue  their  fire.  The  enemy  had  as(  than  100  pieces  of  caution  mount-  lore  .  el—a  more  considerable  number  had  been  dug  up,  taken  out  of  cellars,  and  fixed  upon  carts,  a  grotesque  train,  and  in  itself  sufficient  to  prove  the  madne,s  of  a  people  ahandufsed  to  itself.  But  all  mewls  of  defence  were  become  useless.  The  :  possessors  of  Retiro  are  always  masters  of  Madrid.  The  Em Emperor  peror Emperor  took  all  possible  care  to  prevent  the  troops  from  going  from  house  to  house.  The.  city  was  ruined  if  many  troop  had  been  employed.  Only  some.  companies  of  sharp  shooters  ad advanced,  vanced, advanced,  and  the  Emperor  cons  atantly  refu-ed  to  send  any  to  sus sustain  tain sustain  them.  At  11  o'clock  the  Prince  of  Neufchatel  wrote  the  annexed  letter,  No.  3.—His  Majesty  at  the  saran  lute  ordered  the  fire  to  cease  on  all  points.  At  five  o'clock  General  Morla,  one  of  the  Members  of  the  Military  Junta,  and  Don  Bernardo  Yriarte,  etit  from  the  town,  repaired•to  the  tent  of  the  Major-General.  They  informed  him  that  the  most  intelligent  rrsous  were  of  opinion  that  the  town  was  destitute  of  resources,  and  that  the  continuation  of  the  de defence  fence defence  would  be  the  hei4ht  of  madness,  but  that  the  lower  orders  of  the  inhabitants  and  the  foreigners  at  Madrid,  were  deter determined  mined determined  to  persevere  in  the  defence.  Believing  that  they  could  nit  do  it  with  effect,  they  requested  a  pause  of  a  few  hours  it)  inform  the  people  of  the  real  state  of  affairs.  The  Major-Ge Major-General  neral Major-General  presented  the  Depties  to  the  Emperor  and  King,  who  addressed  them  thus  You  make  use  of  the  name  of  the  peo people  ple people  to  no  purpose;  if  you  cannot  restore  tranquillity  and  ap appease  pease appease  their  minds,  it  is  because  you  have  excited  them  to  re revolt  volt revolt  ;  you  have  seduced  them  by  propagating  falsehoods.  As.  [  B.mble  the  Clergy,  the  heads  of  the  Convents,  the  Alcades,  the  fuer.  •  '  property  aod  inil-Agile.o,  Aiiii  let  the  town  capiulat2  by  P3_TB00012 k  P3_TB00013 •  1  P3_TB00014 '1"
