text
"JAN.  1.  o  giyc  them  credit  for  their  good  intentions;  and  if  they  only  perform  s  what  they  intend,  we  witl  be  the  most  ardent  p  1  their  advocates.  We  are  now  ou  the  great  eve  pf  our  destinies  ;  and  when  we  retied  that  a  few  days  May  Frown  this  Empire  with  permanent  honour  and  se security,  curity, security,  or  plunge  it  into  an  abyss  of  irretrievable  cala calamity,  mity, calamity,  there  is  not  a  Briton  that  will  not  stake  his  last  shilling,  or  wield  every  arm  to  insure  an  honourable  re re,  , re,  sult.  1  slight  stimulus  is  only  necessary  to  make  this  country  perform  prodigies;  and  what  can  he  a  more  powerful  incitement  to  the  display  of  all  her  powers,  than  the  situation  in  winch  our  army  is  now  placed.  We  should  entertain  no  apprehension  •  were  60,000  of  the  enemy  opposed  to  them,  but  when  they  have  it  in  their  power  to  double  tha't  number,  we  shall  not  be  ,guilty  of  the  madness  or  inhumanity  of  leaving  them  to  contend  against  such  fearful  odds.  We  expect  Much  from  the  Spaniards  ;  ice  repo  s  e  the  most  unlimitted  confidence  in  their  courage  and  fidelity  ;  but  let  us  now  act,  as  if  our  force  was  left  solely  to  its  own  exertions.  We  feel  the  .  rpost  genuine  satin-  faction  that  our  wishes  have  been  anticipated  by  Govern Government,  ment, Government,  and  that  several  regiments  have  embarked,  and  ethers  have  received  orders  for  embarkation,  to  join  our  army  in  Spain.  We  wish  that  every  regiment,  the  moment  it  em embarked,  barked, embarked,  sailed  immediately  for  its  destination;  which,we  suppose  to  be  Vigo,  to  order  to  prevent  any  unnecessa unnecessary  ry unnecessary  delay.  On  landing  they  can  immediately  proceed  to  join  the  main  body  of  their  countrymen,  as  no  impe impe'diment  'diment impe'diment  to  theiri  junction  can  take  place  in  that  direction.  By  these  means  complaints  of  scarcity  of  provisions  will  be  obviated  ;  and  we  shall  not  have  the  mortification  of  seeing  a  considerable  part  of  our  troops,  as  was  the  case  with  Sir  DAVID  Batan's  force,  wasting  their  time  at  the  place  of  landing,  However  thp  last  dispatches  have  realised  the  fondest  of  our  wishes  ;  and  the  country  is  now  placed  in  a  situation,  in  which  it  should  have  long  since  appeared.  Nature  Sir  education  never  qualified  her  inhabitants  to  remain  it}  drowsy  inactivity  confined  to  their  owii  shores  ;  a  neighbouring,  and  a  hostile  country  is  filling  •  •  the  world  With  the  sound  of  her  exploits.  The  British  ,•.;  character  is  particularly  formed  for  great  and  darinr  enterprise;  an  'it  betrays  the  must  revolting  ignorance  of  it,  and  a  most  unwarrantable  diffidence  in  its  resources,  to  confine  it  to  puny  'exertions,  It  is  this  conviction,  which  excites  this  triumphant  extiltation  on  our  part,  that  we  are  0  •  now  placed  in  a  situation,  trom  which  the  low  dictates  of  false  policy,  or  the  miserable  'combinations  of  selfishness  cannot  prevail  on  us  to  draw  ba  ti  k.  We  see  once  more  in  idea  the  days  of  the  EDWARDS,'  of  11.ENRY  I  and  of  MARL MARLricition  ricition MARLricition  revived;  and  whatever  pietis,ts  may  say,  warfare.  vn  the  principles,  we  carry  it  on,  so  far  from  injuring  the  moral  character  of  the  community,  mast  tend  to  exalt  it.  It  is  only  necessary  to  converse  with  th'C  soldier,  who  has  seen  years  of  active  service,  to  he  convinced  there  is  not  a  more  estimable  character,  or  a  worthier  man.  It  is  activity  alone  which  corrupts  States,  as  veil  as  individuals  ;  '  and  as  soon  as  100,000  British  soldiers  'appear  on  the  t7outinent,  experience  will  prove,  that  the  imOlitse  given  by  •  Such  an  event  to  the  popular  feelings,  will  have  a  grea  t  and  •  Salutary  influence  oil  oar  national  character.  •  .  .  The  enemy  has  at  last  sent  us  three  additional  Bulletins,  the  14th,  15th,  and  16th,  The  first  of  these  is  dated  Ma Madrid  drid Madrid  the  sth  ;  and  the  last  on  the  Bth,  from  the  same  place.  They  principally  refer  to  the  particulars  of  the  surrender  of  the  Capital,  and  to  some  military  demonstrations  previous  to  that  event.  The  accounts  we  received  at  ditierent  inter intervals,  vals, intervals,  of  the  determination  of  the  inhabitants  to  defend  the  city,  were  perfectly  true  ;  and  if  the  prudence  of  the  Ge Generals  nerals Generals  had  not  restrained  their  resolution,  they  appeared  determined  to  oppose  themselves  to  the  horrors  of  an  as assault,  sault, assault,  rather  than  voluntarily  submit  to  an  enemy  they  so  cordially  abhor.  Madrid  is  as  completely  untenable  as  London  ;  and  from  that  circumstance  we  are  able  to  fonn  some  ettianate  of  the  sentiments  with  which  the  Spaniards  are  in  pired  against  the  invaders.  Their  armies,  in  every  direction  have  been  dgfeAted  ;  and  thPir  minds,  so  far  from  sinking  into  pusillanimity  and  despondency,  display  more  energy  and  determination,in'proportion  as  the  progress  of  the  enemy  becomes  more  alarming,  and  their  success  more  decisive.  This  single  eirepustanceproves,  beyond  contra contradictiOn,  dictiOn, contradictiOn,  what  we  frequently  advanced,  that  the  tyrant  can  preteud  to  nq  greater  part  of  that  country,  than  what  is  oc occupied  cupied occupied  by  his  soldiery  the  remainder  is  as  completely  un unsubdued,  subdued, unsubdued,  and  as  ho4tile,  as  it  was  three  months  ago.  Every  impartial  account  from  the  Peninsula  continr4  this  opinion,  and  the  reverse  of  it  originated  solely  in  the  affected  alarms  and  the  misrepresentations  of  some  party-writers  here  at  home.  From  these  Bulletins,  partial  and  distorted  as  they  are,  there  is  sufficient  to  convince  us,  that  the  opposition  made  to  the  enemy  was  much  greater  than  they  are  willing  to  acknowledge.  This  glorious  spirit  of  resistance,  and  the  ungovernable  animosity  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  capital,  will  compell  the  Tyrant  to  employ  a  considerable  part  of  his  force  in  keeping  the  capital  in  awe,  In  every  other  great  town  he  occupies,  he  will  be  placed  under  a  similar  necessity  ;  anti  the  farther  he  advances,  the  more  cities  he  takes  posSession  of,  the  more  his  force  whill  be  divided.  This  we  always  anticipated,  and  considered  as  an  inevitable  consequence  of  his  first  success.  Under  such  restrictions,  it  is  totally  out  of  his  power  to  overawe,  at  the  same  time,  the  inhabitants  of  the  country,  and,  paradoxical  as  it  may  appear;  in  proportion  as  he  is  successful,  his  means  of  sub subjugating  jugating subjugating  the  country  become  weaker  adirmore  precarious.  '  He  has  had  an  opportunity  of  convincing  himself  of  this  truth  ;  and  his  miserable  expedient  of  sending  over  his  Bolictins  to  this  country,  in  the  intention,  as  he  has  the  in insolence  solence insolence  to  expect,  of  intimidating  our,  government,  and  damping  the  exertions  of  the  British  public,  is  an  unequi unequivocal  vocal unequivocal  proof  of  the  terror  he  entertains  from  a  vi4-orous  co cooperation  operation cooperation  on  our  part.  We  are  from  entertaining  that  despicable  opinion  of  the  understandings  and  hearts  of  the  present  Ministry,  as  to  think  they  could  be  duped  by  so  mean  an  artifice.  It  is•  only  necessary  to  place  before  their  eyes  that  artiele  of  the  French  Bulletin,  which  coldly  men mentions  tions mentions  the  massacre  of  sixteen  stragglers  belonging  to  the  British  Army,  to  make  them  adopt  the  solemn  and  irre irrevocable  vocable irrevocable  determination  to  employ  every  nano  and  resource  of  this  country  to  revenge  so  inhuman  an  outrage.  Not  a  moment  should  be  'deferred  for  the  execution  of  this  just  retaliation..  Every  thing  which,  honour,  love  of  their  country  and  an  'abhorrence  of  injustice  can  suggest,  must  now  call  on  them  to  redouble  their  exertions.  'The  fate  of  Europe  depends  on  the  use  they  malte  of  the  ua4i,y&amp;;al"
