text
"EsracAsc  OF  THE  ARMY.  Lord  CASTLEREA  Gil  rose.  Ile  would  at  this  day  venture  to  say,  that  no  Military  measure  had  ever  been  so  inneediately  and  effectually  productive  to  the  army,  ns  that  adopted  in  1807.  The  number  of  men  allowed  by  that  measure  to  volunteer  from  the  militia  into  the  line,  was  25,000,  of  which  w  hole  number  there  had  been  a  deficiency  of  only  8  or9oo  men  ;  the  rest,  con conisting  isting conisting  of  some  of  the  best  disciplined  and  most  effective  soldiers  in  the  service,  had  entered  into  the  line,  and  to  their  steadiue.s  and  valour  the  coutory  was,  no  doubt,  io  a  great  ineasnre  io iopted  pted iopted  for  the  glory  which  it  had  acquired  at  1'  indent  :tad  Corunna.  Ile  allowed  that  the  levy  of  ilitia,  in  oidcr  to  supply  he  ith..ee  of  28,1)00,  who,  by  the  bill  of  1807,  permitted  the  Volunteers  into  the  line,  pressed  heavy  on  the  country  ;  but  it  shelved  what  the  country  was  w  hen  caned  on  for  exertion.  Par Parliament  liament Parliament  had  demanded  .13,000  militia  men  from  (  ireat  Britain  and  Ireland  ;  in  six  months  after  ::mat  demand  41.50  joined  their  respective  regiments.  lie  concluded,  therefore,  by  moving  for  leave  to  bring  in  a  bill  to  allow  a  certain  part  of  the  Militia  of  Great  Britain  to  volunteer  into  the  regular  army.  Mr.  TIEltNI•ly  said,  he  made  .nine  observations  on  the  present  occasion,  to  guard  himself  from  being  supposed  to  assent  to  the  proposition  that  his  !',/:jesty's  Alinisters  had  a  claim  on  the  country,  to  have  a  further  force  placed  at  their  disposal,  withottt  having  first  accounted  for  the  way  in  ‘c  Irish  they  had  employed  that  already  entrusted  to  them.  After  several  Members  had  spoke,'  in  opposition  to  the  men mensure,  sure, mensure,  and  on  thetptestion  being  put  for  lea  e  to  bring  iu  the  hill,  a  division  took  place.  For  the  motion,  77—Aptinst  it,  20.  The  hill  was  then  read  a  tirst  time,  and  ordered  to  be  read  a  second  time  oh  Tuesday  next.—Adjourned."
