text
"14.ATTemtu  t  i  REGISTER.  •%  *%!  ...,  .  ~'3  r  -Y  ...,  r  :....  -►  .  ..•,  C4F.LEBILATION  OF  THE  QUEEN'S  BIRTH-DAY.  „The  -celebration  of  'her  Majtitt3:s  birth  day  who  corn-  J  eated  her  sivty-fourth  car  on-the  19th  of  May  last,-took  •  place  .on  Wedncsda-  The  cdebration  of  the  day  was,  as  usual  obterved  with'  wry  demonstration  of  joy.  About  two  o'clock  her  Majesty  and  the  itriricelisei  their.  dressieg,--  rooms,  .when.  the  Earl.of.,ll4rtari,.  her  Ma-'  jesty's  Chamberlain,  and  Colonel  Desbrow,  Vice-Cham Vice-Chamberlain,  berlain, Vice-Chamberlain,  with  the  Ladies  in  waiting  upon  her  Majesty,  and  the  Prioresses,  together  with  other  Court  attendants,  pro proceded  ceded proceded  and  followed  her.  M.ajcsty  and  the  Princesses  towards  the  Grand  ,  Council  Chamber  to  hold  the  drawing-room.  In  an  anti-root:  the  Archbishop  of  Canterbury,.  and  several  Bishops  were  in  waiting,  to  compliment  her  Majesty  upon  the  joyful  eyent,  and  the  commencement  of-the,now  year.  Tbe  Archbishop  delivered  to  her  Majesty  a  very  suitable  oration  upon.  the  occasion..  •  'Forty  boys  from  Christ's  llospital  attended  in  the  pre preenee  enee preenee  tuber,  with  Mr.  Gwyune,  their  inater,  at  their  head  ;-  and  were  presented  to  her  Majesty  and  the  Princesses  by  Alderman  Shaw.  •  Her  Majesty  entered  the  Grand  Council  Chamber  about  .half  past  two  u'elock,  and  took  her  station  between  the  second  and  third  window,  with  her  back  against  a  marble  slab  table.  Her.  Majesty  having  taken  her  station,  and  the  Earl  of  Morton,-  her  Chamberlain,  having  made  the  necessary  regulations  for  her  Majesty's  receiving  the  congratulations  and  presentations  of  the  company,  the  Lord  Chamberlain  waved  his  wand  as  a  signal  to  Sir  William  Parsons,  the  ,  Master.  of  .the  King's  Band,  ,who  was  •  attending  in  the  anti antichamber  chamber antichamber  on  the  left  of  the  throne,  with  his.  Majesty's  Baud,  to  perform  the  following  .  ODE  FOR  THE  NEW  YIiAR,  INC  .  .  BY  $.  .1.  PY-E,  ESQ.  P.  L.  •  orb'd  is  minoctittl  skies,  ..  When  the  pale  moon  malignant  rides,  •  And  bids  the  howling  tempers  rise,  And  swells  the  dcean's  briny  tides,  •  Dreadful  . STYLE=superscript  againit  the  sounding  shore'  •  The  winds  and  waves  tumultuous  roar,  •••  The  torrent-braving  mound  in  vain  The  stormy  inroad  would  restrain,  The  surges  with  resistless  sway  •  - STYLE=superscript  Forreo'er  -the  labouecl  'mile  their  way,  Scorn  every  weak  resource  of  humatt  •  O'erwheltu  the  peopled  town,  and  naste  the  cultur'd  soil.  rut  when.hy  .  uative  fences  barr'd  •  .From  billowy.rage  t  the  happier  land,  And  rocky  cliffs  for  ever  stand  •  To  the  Wide2-wateed  coast  a  guard,  •  Such  as  on  \recta's  southern  steep  tbok  down  defiance  on  theraging  deeps  Such  as  on  Dover's-breezy  down  •  On  Gallia's  hostile  borders  frown,  ;  '  l'ho'  billows  urging  billows  roar  •  -And  idly  beat  against  tine  shore,  While  from  the  heights  sublime  the  swain  Mocks  the  vain  ellbrts  of  the  foaming  main,  .  Till  nature  bids  the.deluged  surge  subside,  Eush'd  is  the  .  tempest's  voice,  and  relineot  rolls  the  tide.  So  o'er  Europa's  ravaged  plain  We  saw  the  torrent  wild  of  war  .  Resistless  spread  its  iron  reign,  And  scatter  ruin  wide  and  far;  -The'entbattled  wall,  the  warlike  band,  Vainly  the  Tyrant's  course  withstand;  tßafore  the  impious  sons  of  Gaul  The  legions  Sy,  the  bulwarks  fall  ;  Yet  lifitilifes  floating  castles  sweep  -  Invasion  from  her  sunject  deep,,  Yet  by  her  rocks  secure  from  harm  :  .  Securer  by  her  patriot  arm,  .lberia  turns  the  Irttl•'s  tide,  Reslqs  the  injurious  Tyrant's  pride,  •  .  While,  freely  floating  in  the  ambient  sky,  sAtred  to  freedom's  cause,  their  mingled  anises  Sy.  &#34;'  •  'AN':  It  Those  who  had  first  the  honour  of  paying-their  respects  to  iicr  Majesty  were,  Lord  Hood,  General  Bertie,'  Lady  Banks;  Miss  Banks,  and  Mr.  R.  Thornton.  .  •  The  Princess  of  Wales  entered  the.Drawinproom  about aboutten  ten aboutten  minutes  before  three  o'cloCk,  and  was  conducted  to  .her  Majesty  by  Mrs.  St.  Leger;  her  ROyal  Highness,  after  paying  her  respects  to  her  Majesty,  passed  on  and  shook  hands  with  the  -  Princesses'  and  the  Duke  of  Cambridge.  The  'Prince.  of  - STYLE=superscript  Wales  came  into  the  room  aiMut  five  minutes  after  ;  •  his  Koyal  giglniess  conversed  ,with  •  several  fiends  as.  he  passed  on  to  her  Majesty,  and  remained  on  her  Majesty'S  left  hand  a  considerable  time.  The  Court  was  but  thinly  attended.  The  paucity  of  numbers  was,  however,  compensated  by  the  novel  splen splendour  dour splendour  and  elegance  of  the  dresses  displayed  upon  the  OCCA-.  sion.  Velvets  and  rich  figured  satins  were  almost  univer universally  sally universally  worn,  and  these  were  very  tastefully  and  splen  didly  decorated  in  a  manner  most  aptly  suited  to  the  Court  hill  dress."
