text
"IqAttell  12.  French  Papers  to  the  2d  and  Dutch  Papers  to  the  6th  have  been  received  in  town.  Their  contents  are  of  the  ut-  Most  importance.  One  of  them,  The  Journal  de  L'Empire,  the  least  respectable  even  of  the  Paris  papers  for  the  authen authenticity  ticity authenticity  of  its  reports,  contains  an  undicial  account  of  the  fall  of  Saragossa.  This  event  it  states  to  have  taken  place  on  the  21st  January.  But  this  statement,  it  is  plain,  is  given  for  the  purpose  of  palliating  the  severe  reverses  which  the  French  have  sustained  in  another  part  of  the  Peninsula.  It  is  couched  in  all  the  extravagance  and  hyperbole  of  fiction,  and  evidently  intended  to  astonish  and  divert  the  higher  and  lower  rabble  of  the  capital.  A  part  of  the  account,  however,  we  are  willing  to  credit,  as  it  coincides  with  the  previous  intelligence  we  had  relative  to  the  bril brilliant  liant brilliant  success  of  PALA  FOX.  It  mentions  that  the  troops,  Un Under  der Under  the  command  of  that  truly  Illustrious  bad  made  a  sortie,  and  advanced  a  considerable  distance  from  the  walls,  but  were  driven  back  ;  and  on  the  French  following  up  the  success,  they  received  a  Deputation  from  the  City,  proposing  to  surrender  it,  on  condition  that  the  lives  of  the  Citizens  should  be  spared.  This  was  peremp peremptorily  torily peremptorily  ref  used  E  used  by  LANS,  who  commanded  the  blockade.  On  this  refusal  the  inhabitants  are  represented  to  have  pro proceeded  ceeded proceeded  to  the  altars,  and  solemnly  pledged  themselves  to  bury  themselves  under  the  ruins  of  their  city,  rather  than  surrender,  They  then  repaired  to  their  respective  posts  of  defence.  The  French  rushed  through  the  gates  of  the  city,  without  much  resistance,  when  a  mine  was  suddenly  sprung,  prepared  for  the  purpose,  which  made  a  tremendous  havoc  among  the  assailants.  So  far.  the  facts  have  some  resem resemblance  blance resemblance  with  the  previous  accounts  received  by  the  way  of  Spain,  and  which  our  Readers  will  have  seen  in  a  former  paper.  This  article  concludes  with  asserting  that  Saragossa  afterwards  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  enemy  ;  aid  that  LANWES  proposed  a  general.  pardon  to  such  of  the  inhabi inhabitants  tants inhabitants  as  would  submit  to  the  new  Government.  To  invalidate  the  authenticity  of  this  statement,  it  is  only  necessary  to  advert  that  not  one  of  the  other  Paris  Fivers  refers  to  this  event.  We  are  positively  informed  that  the  Moniteur  of  the  same  date  does  not  allude  to  it.  A  circumstance  of  such  vast  importance,  which  the  French  papers  unanimously  consider  as  decisive  of  06  submission  of  the  Peninsula,  would  not  fail  to  be  mentioned  with  a  mi minuteness  nuteness minuteness  of  detail,  a  copiousness  of  fact,  which  disinguish  similar  reports  on  the  part  of  the  enemy.  .  Not  a  word  is  mentioned  relative  to  PALAFOX,  the  very  man  whose  cap capture  ture capture  would  be  as  gratifying  to  the.tyrant,  as  the  fall  of  Sa Saragossa  ragossa Saragossa  itself.  That  Hero  has  too  much  signalized  himself  by  his  resistance  and  enmity  to  the  invaders  of  his  country,  as  not  to  excite  among  the  French  some  degree  of  interest  relative  to  his  fate.  This  silence  is,  in  our  opinion,  conclu conclusive,  sive, conclusive,  and  serves  to  prove  that  this  is  one  of  those  fabri fabrications,  cations, fabrications,  which  the  plotting,  wily  despot  resorts  to,  in  order  to  appease  the  public  mind  in  France,  intimi intimidate  date intimidate  Austria,  fix  the  wavering  allegiance  of  his  Ger German  man German  vassals,  and  impose  upon  the  courts  of  Berlin  and  Petersburgh.  This  trick  is  imperiously  urgent  in  the  present  crisis  of  Europe  ;  and  what  is  public  opinion  to  the  wretch,  whose  misdeeds  have  long  placed  beyond  him  the  reach  of  that  tribunal.  He  is  conscious  that  he  now  governs.by  terror;  and  as  long  as  he  is  able  to  keep  that  sensation,  in  its  present  extent  and  vigour,  alive,  he  attaches  very  little  importance  to  the  attachment  of  his  Slaves.  The  whole  population  of  France,  his  armies,  his  vassal  states,  must  now  be  sensible  to  the  precariousness  of  the  tenure,  by  which.they  hold  their  lives  and  repose.  Those,  among  them  most  remarkable  for  moral  and  intellectual  stupidity,  must  begin  to  murmur  at  the  accumulating  misery  of  the  Kaman  race.  Not  a  momentary  respite  is  granted  ;  but  ivar  succeeds  war,  devastation  follows  on  devastation  ;  and  to  what  and  to  whom  are  these  horrors  to  be  traced  ?  To  a  foreign  adventurer,  whose  origin,  whose  primitive  ob obscurity,  scurity, obscurity,  whose  early  dependence  and  obscurity  in  their  own  country,  they  are  now  filly  acquainted  with.  This  report  of  the  fall  of  Saragossa,  we  are  inclined  to  believe  strongly,  was  intended  Tor  some  of  the  purposes  ,  173  above  stated,  as  well  as  to  palliate  a  signal  reverse  sus sustamed  tamed sustamed  by  the  enemy  in  Cataloma.  We  were  prepared,  in  some  measure,  for  this  important  occurrence,  by  the  late*  arrivals  from  Spain.  They  stated  that  General  REDING,.  who  was  at  the  head  of  25,000  excellent  troops,  was  pre preparing  paring preparing  to  act  on  the  olleasive.  This  account  is  fully  corroborated  by  a  splendid  victory,  which  that  distin— distinguished  guished distinguished  officer  gained  over  Si'.  CYR,  who  commands  the  6  enemy  in  that  province.  He  afterwards  obtained  possession►  of  the  citadel  and  town  of  Barcelona,  in  the  neighbourhood  of  which  this  splendid  action  took  place.  It  must  be  re remarked,  marked, remarked,  that  the  French  Papers  contain  some  allusious  to  this  circumstance,  the  particulars  of  which  we  have  collected  from  private  accounts.  The  force  of  Sr.  Ca  it  salts  staled  two  months  ago,  when  he  raised  the  siege  of  Barcelona,  to  have  amounted  to  40,000  men  ;  and  this  soperiority  of  force  induced  Rcauva  to  retire  from  the  neighhdurhood  that  city.  The  !alter  maintained  , STYLE=superscript  however  , STYLE=superscript  after STYLE=superscript  hayin STYLE=superscript  g  effected  a  masterly  ret  neat,  his  fuot!ng  in  the  province,  an  d  kept  tip  the  spirits  of  its  brave  and  numeroas  population.  Sr.  Cva  must  either  have  detached  a  considerable  part  of  •  his  troops  to  reinforce  the  besieging  corps  before  Barce Barcelona;  lona; Barcelona;  or  a  part  of  them  have  been  ordered  to  march  to towards  wards towards  Germany,  in  consequence  of  approaching  hostilities  with  Austria.  '['he  event,  however,  is  of  the  greatest  con consequence,  sequence, consequence,  and  should  PALAFOX  succeed  in  maintaining  Saragossa,  we  may  consider  it,  in  the  present  situation  of  the  Continent,  as  decisive  of  Spanish  independence.  REDING,  who  is  a  most  enterprising  officer,  and  to  whoni  the  defeat  of  Der  O  NT  was  solely  to  be  attributed,  mill  be  able  to  take  the  blockading  army  before  Saragossa  in  flank,  place  them  between  fires,  cut  off  their  communica communications  tions communications  with  France,  and  render  their  retreat  precarious  int  the  extreme.  Our  hopes  and  our  speculations  rest,  as  it  must  be  observed,  on  the  truth  or  falsehood  of  the  articles  contained  in  the  Journal  de  l'Empire.  Would  to  IleaVell  !  our  previous  conjectures  on  that  subject  were  righ  t.  \V  e  bly  supposed,  aad  our  Readers  may  have  sonic  time  smiled  at  the  sanguine  cast  of  our  expectations,  that  justire  ;yc  ull  ultimately  triumph  over  villainy  ;  patriotism,  over  oppres  , STYLE=superscript  WEIL  We  have  not  learned  as  yet,  with  all  the  disLoas  raging  experience  of  the  present  time,  to  renounce  a  fa:  vourable  opinion  of  men,—the  phantom  as  it  is  called  by  the  selfish  and  the  plodding,  of  too  ardent  an  imagivatioui  The  dispatches,  which  our  Ministers,  as  well  as  the  Spankh  Ambassadors  received  on  Wednesday  from  Spain,  ail!  cons  vince  even  scepticism,  that  the  sacred  cause  of  Spanish  frees  dom,  is  neither  desperate  nor  even  uncertain.  The  French  force  is  placed  again  in  a  predicament  similar  to  that,  which,  in  last  summer,  left  them  no  other  alternative  than  sur'  render  and  gradual  destruction,  or  a  precipitate  retreat  to  the  frontiers.  The  same  appearances  warrant  similar  ex expectations.  pectations. expectations.  Saragossa  Iva%  last  sear  the  first  scene  of  the:a'  disgrace  and  discomfiture;  and  that  illustrious  city  we  still  hope  has  once  more  turned  the  tide  of  their  fortunes.  JOSEPH  and  his  followers  fled  precipitately  from  Madrie,  at  the  approach  of  the  army  of  Andalusia  ;  and  au  armv  of  60,000  men,  under  the  command  of  Curs'rA  and  the  Duke  of  INVANTADO,  was  hastening,  at  the  date  of  the  last  dispatches,  to  that  very  capital.  The  French,  accord  , STYLE=superscript  ing  to  the  most  positive  accounts,  harrassed,  spiritless,  worn  out  by  unremitting  toil  and  incessant  hes,  begat  •  to  make  demonstrations,  which  indicate  another  retreat  behind  the  Ebro.  Offensive  operations,  on  their  side,  have  totally  discontinued,  with  the  exception  of  the  force  acting  against  Saragossa  ;  and  these  have  had  no  other  result  than  the  destruction  of  almost  half  the  force  employh  im  ed  for  tit  that  purpose.  PALAFOX  (  it STYLE=superscript  is  supe  rfluous STYLE=superscript  to  give  a  le,  his  deeds  proclaim  his  worth)  has  54.-,iii‘lized  himsetf  and  his  country  by  another  signal  &amp;feat  of  the  assailants.  In  adverting  to  that  extraordinary  man,  we  know  not  what  to  admire  most—the  sublimity  of  his  ceurige  ant!  zeal,  or  the  versatility  of  his  resources.  By  a  singular  stratagem,  he  is  said  to  have  accomplished  a  most  derisive  victory  over  the  enemy.  A  number  of  women  rushed  towards  the  gates  of  the  city,  as  if  driven  to  despair:  by  the  P13_TB00005 .  ,  MARCH  12.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  173  ;  i  i  ar  ~.........w.'.iv  •  stated,  as  well  as  to  palliate  a  signal  reverse  sus-  ..  French  Papers  to  the  2d  and  Dutch  Papers  to  the  6 STYLE=superscript  th  above  have  been  received  in  town.  Their  contents  are  of  the  ut-  tamed  by  the  enemy  in  Catalonia.  We  were  prep  ared, STYLE=superscript  in STYLE=superscript  ti;  tnost  importance.  One  of  them,  The  Journal  de  L'Empire,  some  1  measure,  for  this  important  oc  currence,  by  the  late  . STYLE=superscript  i  '  ..  I STYLE=superscript  sil  the  least  respectable  even  of  the  Paris  papers  for  the  authen  - STYLE=superscript  arrivals STYLE=superscript  from  Spain.  They  stated  that  General  REDING,'  ticity  of  its  reports,  contains  an  uncial  account  of  the  who  was  at  the  head  of  25,000  excellent  troops,  was  pre-  .  fall  of  Saragossa.  This  event  it  states  to  have  taken  place  paring  to  act  on  the  ofleasive.  This  account  is  fully  ;  'il  on  the  21st  January.  But  this  statement,  it  is  plain,  is  corroborated  by  a  splendid  victory,  which  that  distin—  }:  .1.,  .  given  for  the  purpose  of  palliatiug  the  severe  reverses  guished  officer  gained  over  Si'.  Ora,  who  commands  the  ..  r,  1  , STYLE=superscript  i,  which  the  French  have  sustained  in  another  part  of  the  enemy  in  that  province.  He  afterwards  obtained  possession.  si  .  Peninsula.  It  is  couched  in  all  the  extravag,ance  and  of  the  citadel  and  town  of  Barcelona,  in  the  neighbourhood  s.  4  hyperbole  of  fiction,  and  evidently  intended  to  astonish  and  of STYLE=superscript  which STYLE=superscript  this STYLE=superscript  splendid  a  c  tion  took  place.  It  must  be  re  - STYLE=superscript  divert  I.  the  higher  and  lower  rabble  of  the  capital.  A  part  of  marked,  that  the  French  Papers  contain  some  allusions  to  the  account,  - STYLE=superscript  however,  we  are  willing  to  credit,  as  it  coincides  this  circumstance,  the  particulars  of  which  we  have  collected  ,'i  ,  t  ,  \I  with  the  previous  intelligence  we  had  relative  to  the  brit-  from  private  accounts.  The  force  of  ST.  Cs  a  %%Nis  s  tated  butt  success  of  PALAFOX.  It  mentions  that  the  troops,  un-  two  months  ago,  when  lie  raised  the  siege  of  Barcelona;  der  the  command  of  that  truly  to  have  amounted  to  40,000  men;  and  this  soperiority  of  !  i  bad  made  a  sortie,  and  advanced  a  considerable  distance  force  induced  I  I  ....F.DING  to  retire  from  the  neighhdurhood  tsf  I,  from  the  walls,  but  were  driven  back;  and  on  the  French  that  city.  The  latter  maintained,  however,  after  haying.  ‘„  following  up  the  success,  they  received  a  Deputation  from  of  a  masterly  re!  rent,  his  looter)  . STYLE=superscript  in  the  province,  ;end  ,  ,  the  City,  proposing  to  surrender  it,  on  condition  that  kept  up  the  spirits  of  its  brave  and  11111C1'011S  pOpUlatioll.  4  j  1.  , STYLE=superscript  the  lives  of  the  Citizens  should  be  spared.  This  was  peremp-  Sr.  CYR.  must  either  have  detached  a  considerable  part  of  torily  refused  by  Lssis  Es,  who  commanded  the  blockade.  his  troops  to  reinforce  the  besieging  corps  before  Barce-  On  this  refusal  the  inhabitants  are  represented  to  have  pro-  lona  ;or  a  part  of  them  have  been  ordered  to  march  to-  i  ceeded  to  the  altars,  and  solemnly  pledged  themselves  to  wards  Germany,  in  consequence  of  approaching  hostilities  bury  themselves  under  the  ruins  of  their  city,  rather  than  with  Austria.  The  event,  however,  is  of  the  greatest  con-  surrender,  They  then  repaired  to  their  respective  posts  of  sequence,  and  should  PALAFOX  succeed  in  maintaining  •  defence.  The  French  rushed  through  the  gates  of  the  city,  Sarag  ossa,  we  may  consider  it,  in  the  present  situation  of  without  much  resistance,  when  a  mine  was  suddenly  sprung  , STYLE=superscript  the  Continents  as  decisive  of  Spanish  independence.  prepared  for  the  purpose,  which  made  a  tremendous  havoc  REDING,  who  is  a  most  enterprising  officer,  and  to  whom  among  the  assailants.  So  far.  the  facts  have  sonic  reseal-  the  defeat  of  Dv  r  os-r  was  solely  to  be  attributed,  mill  be  i  alb  s STYLE=superscript  nce  - STYLE=superscript  with  the  previous  accounts  received  by  .  the  way  of  able  to  take  the  blockading  ;it-my  before  Sarie  , STYLE=superscript  o  sa  id  II  s,  .  1 STYLE=superscript  '  Spain,  and  which  our  Readers  will  have  seen  in  a  former  flank,  place  them  between  fires,  cut  off  their  communica-  paper.  This  article  concludes  with  asserting  that  Saragossa  lions  with  France,  and  render  their  retreat  precarious  int  afterwards  fell  into  the  hands  of  the  enemy  ;  aid  that  the  extreme.  Our  hopes  and  our  speculations  rest,  as  it  LANWES  proposed  a  general.pardon  to  such  of  the  inhabi-  must  be  observed,  on  the  truth  or  falsehood  of  the  article  tants  as  would  submit  to  the  new  Government.  contained  in  the  journal  derEmpire.  Would  to  Ilei.LIT.ll!  our  To  invalidate  the  authenticity  of  this  statement,  it  is  previous  conjectures  on  tir.it  subject  were  righ  t.invarias  only  necessary  to  advert  that  not  one  of  the  other  Paris  bly  supposed,  alai  our  Readers  may  have  some  tune  i  s STYLE=superscript  vipers  refers  to  this  event.  'We  are  positively  informed  at  the  sanguine  cast  of  our  expectations,  that  justire  wcailil  that  the  Moniteur  of  the  same  date  does  not  allude  to  it.  ultimately  triumph  over  villainy  ;  patriotism,  over  oppre.,-;  ,:4  1  . STYLE=superscript  11  ,  A  circumstance  of  such  vast  importance,  which  the  French  ion.  We  have  not  learned  as  yet,  with  all  the  dis(  (as  papers  unanimously  consider  as  decisive  of  06  submission  raging  experience  of  the  present  time,  to  renounce  e  f.is  of  the  Peninsula,  would  not  fail  to  be  mentioned  with  a  mi-  vourable  opinion  of  men,—the  phantom  as  it  is  called  by  .  1  'lateness  of  detail,  a  copiousness  of  fact,  which  disinguish  the  selfish  and  the  plodding,  of  too  ardent  an  imagivatioui  .  ~•  1  '...: STYLE=superscript  similar  reports  on  the  part  of  the  enemy.  -  Not  a  word  i STYLE=superscript  s  The STYLE=superscript  dis STYLE=superscript  p  atches, STYLE=superscript  which STYLE=superscript  our STYLE=superscript  Ministers, STYLE=superscript  as STYLE=superscript  well STYLE=superscript  as STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  Spanish STYLE=superscript  1 STYLE=superscript  mentioned  relative  to  PAt.AFOX,  the  very  man  whose  cap-  Ambassadors  received  on  Wednesday  from  Spain,  will  cons  ture  would  be  as  gratifying  to  the.tyrant,  as  the  fall  of  Sa-  vince  even  scepticism,  that  the  sacred  cause  of  Spanish  free]  ..  .  .Ls  ragossa  itself.  That  Hero  has  too  much  signalized  himself  dom,  is  neither  desperate  nor  even  uncertain.  The  French  by  his  resistance  and  enmity  to  the  invaders  of  his  country,  force  is  placed  again  in  a  predicament  similar  to  that,  which,  ;.:,  as  not  to  excite  among  the  French  some  degree  of  interest  in  last  summer,  left  them  no  other  alternative  tkan  sur'  relative  to  his  fate.  This  silence  is,  in  our  opinion,  conclu-  render  and  gradual  destruction,  or  a  precipitate  retreat  to  1  sive,  and  serves  to  prove  that  this  is  on  e STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  those STYLE=superscript  fabri- STYLE=superscript  the  frontiers.  The  same  anpearances  warrant STYLE=superscript  similar STYLE=superscript  esc- STYLE=superscript  cations,  which  the  plotting,  wily  despot  resorts  to,  in  pectations.  Saragossa  waa  i STYLE=superscript  last  year  the  first  scene  of  the'r  •  .  order  to  appease  the  public  mind  in  France,  intimi-  disgrace  and  discomfiture;  and  that  illostrious  city  we  still  .s,  : STYLE=superscript  ;  .. STYLE=superscript  t  .. STYLE=superscript  date  Austria,  fix  the  wavering  allegiance  of  hishope  has  once  more  turned  the  tide  of  their  fortunes.  man  vassals,  and  impose  upon  the  courts  of  Berlin  JosEett  and  his  followers  fled  precipitately  fro  ►  m  Madrie,  ,  ...  and  Petersburgh.  This  trick  is  imperiously  urgent  in  at  the  app  roach STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  army STYLE=superscript  of STYLE=superscript  Andalusia  ;  and  au  ,  (  the  present  crisis  of  Europe  ;  and  what  is  public  opinion  army  of  60,000  men,  under  the  command  of  CursTa  and  a  l  , STYLE=superscript  to  the  wretch,  whose  misdeeds  have  long  placed  beyond  him  the  'Duke  of  INVANTADO,  was  hastening,  at  the  date  of  the  0,  i  the  reach  of  that  tribunal.  He  is  conscious  that  he  now  last  dispatches  to  that  very  capital.  The  French,  accords  4  J  governs  by  terror;  and  as  long  as  lie  is  able  to  keep  that  ing  to  the  most  positive  accounts,  harrassed,  spless,  :ld  sensation,  in  its  present  extent  ac  id  vigour,  alive,  he  attaches  worn  out  by  unremitting  toil  and  incessant  inset  !ies,  he4iit  •  •  very  little  importance  to  the  attachment  of  his  Slaves.  The  to  make  demonstrations,  which  indicate  another  retreat  Al  i  '  0  whole  population  of  France,  his  armies,  his  vassal  states,  behind  the  Ebro.  Offensive  operations,  on  their  side,  have  .  ••  must  now  be  sensible  to  the  precariousness  of  the  tenure,  totally  discontinued,  with  the  exception  of  the  force  acting  by  which  the  hold  their  lives  and  repose.  Those, STYLE=superscript  amon STYLE=superscript  g  against STYLE=superscript  Saragossa STYLE=superscript  ;  and STYLE=superscript  these STYLE=superscript  have STYLE=superscript  had STYLE=superscript  no STYLE=superscript  other STYLE=superscript  result STYLE=superscript  than STYLE=superscript  them  most  remarkable  for  moral  and  intellectual  stupidity,  the  destruction  of  almost  half  the  force  employed  for  that  r  i  •  must  begin  to  murmur  at  the  accumulating  misery  of  the  purpose.  PALAFOX  (it  is  superfluous  to  give  him  a  title,.  human  race.  Not  a  momentary  respite  is  granted  ;  but  his  deeds  proclaim  his  worth)  has  svalized  himsetf  aed  L  Iva'.  succeeds  war,  devastation  follows  on  devastation;  and  his  country  by  another  signal  ‘efea  t  of  the  assailant's.  In  to  what  and  to  whom  are  these  horrors  to  be  traced  I  To  adverting  to  that  extraordinary  man,  we  know  not  what  a  foreign  adventurer,  whose  origin,  whose  primitive  ob-  to  admire  most—the  sublimity  of  his  coursge  am!  zeal,  or  scurity,  whose  early  dependence  and  obscurity  in  their  own  ,  the  versatility  of  his  •resources.  By  a  singular  .  strata  .  gem,  country,  they  are  now  fally  acquainted  with.  he  is  said  to  have  accomplished  a  most  derisive  victory  This  report  of  the  fall  of  Saragossa,  we  are  inclined  to  over  the  enemy.  A  number  of  women  rushed  towards  believe  strongly,  was  intended  - STYLE=superscript  for  some  of  the  purposes  ~the  gates  of  the  city,  as  if  driven  to  despair  *by  the  .  .  ,t,:  ii  1.  , STYLE=superscript  ~.'  t.  d  .  •  -  -  i;  1,)  P13_TB00006 1/"
