text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  lain  some  express  definition  of  w  hat  men  are  to  understand  by  libelling  ?  Let  it  he  enacted,  what  we  may  say,  or  what  we  may  not  say  ;  and  let  us  be  kindly  instructed  as  to  what  we  may  write,  and  as  to  what  we  may  not  write.  Ought  the  situation  of  authors  iu  Paris,  Sir,  to  be  less  hazardous  than  that  of  authors  in  London  ?  Better,  however,  is  the  discipline  of  incessant  re restriction,  striction, restriction,  than  the  privilege  of  being  at  liberty  merely  to  *endanger  ourselves.  Scut  - STYLE=superscript  leafing  must  be  done  respecting  the  British  Press;  of  which,  for  the  alternate  purposes  of  power  or  faction,  the  liberty  is  artfully  blended  with  its  licentiousness.  Suffer  not,  Sir,  another  alarmist-system  to  .depreciate,  and  almost  annihilate,  the  franchises  of  mankind.  Let  not  the  licentiousness  of  the  _Press  succeed  to  the  Jacobinism  of  France.  You,  and  such  as  `•ou,  ought  not  to  be  apprehensive  of  the  progress  of  human  reedom.  It  is  the  parer  of  the  purse,  you  are  well  aware,  and  the  power  of  the  people,  that  now  threatens  the  vitality  of  our  political  existence.  Alas,  for  Junius—had  his  publisher  lived  when  simply  to  di STYLE=superscript  hold  a  man  up  to  ridicule  and  might  constitute  a  Consider,  Sir,  let  me  beseech  of  you,  the  few  thoughts  which,  through  the  channel  of  newspaper  intercourse,  I  have  now  ventured  to  submit  to  you.  Turn  over  some  back  pages  of  the  chronicles  of  our  countrymen,  and  mark  the  time  when,  even  during  one  of  the  most  degenerate  and  disgust disgusting  ing disgusting  periods  of  our  history,  ballad-siugersand  street-cryers  were,  neverthdess,  still  allowed  openly  to  ridicule  and  rebuke  the  mistres,e  ,  and  ministers,  and  measures  of  their  prince.  Yes,  Sir,  this  trine  fact  occurs  under  the  arbitrary  government  .of  the  Second  Charles  l—How,  indeed,are  the  mighty  fallen  !  Does  it  not  recur  to  your  mind,  Sir,  that  we  are  driving  the  doctrine  of  libels  to  an  extreme  that  will  effectually  bar  all  salutary  inquiry  ?  Perhaps  there  i  8  not,  after  all,  any  open  libel  without  some  covert  justice  ;  as,  we  know,  there  are  many  lies  with  much  truth  in  them.  Competent  to  every  legal  purpose,  you  have  therefore  acted  right,  meritoriously  right,  in  attempt attempting  ing attempting  to  bring  the  deci.ions  of  our  Courts  of  Law  immediately  under  the  cognizance  of  the  H  igh  •  Court  of  Parliament.  Judge's,  though  independent  as  to  influence,  are  not  infallible  as  to  in inference.  ference. inference.  Congratulate  yourself,  Sir,  as  to  the  political  eminence  on  which  you  stand.  took  backwards,  and  justly  pride  yourself  on  your  past  conduct;  look  forwards,  and  prepare  for  the  glorious  career  that  is  opening  itself  .  to  your  view.  Whigs  or  furies.  of  the  old-school  or  of  the  new-chool,  catholics  or  anti-catholics,  men  are  heartily  sick  Of  all  the  usual  parties.  A  really  new  party,  a  strictly  honest  and  truly  able  party,  is  the  party  now  wanting.  txpect  this  new  party,  co-operate  in  the  formation  of  it  ;  and  doubt  not  to  tind  your  toils  compensated.  by  the  secret  :approbation  of  your  own  consciern'e,  and  the  grateful  acclama acclamations  tions acclamations  of  your  independent  compatriots.  Aittrch  1,  1809.  Homo.  DEBTORS  AND  CREDITORS  fl  TO  TUE  EDITOR  OF  TUE  NATWANL  RECISTER.  SlR—Every  honourable  and  enlightened  man,  throughout  these  United  Kingdoms,  must  feel  grateful  to  Sir  Samuel  no noroilly  roilly noroilly  for  his  intended  Bill,  to  be  introduced  into  our  Imperial  Parliament,  on  the  subject  of  the  Bankrupt  Laws.  The  most  callous  of  human  beings  will  not  be  able  Wholly  to  resist  the  representation  he  has  given  as  to  the  relative  situations  of  debtor  and  creditor  in  this  country.  \W  hat,  indeed,  is  sr  monstrous,  as  first  compelling  debtors  to  practice  dishonesty,  and  then  pun punishing  ishing punishing  then'  for  the  etrect  of  their  fraudulency  What,  too,  can  be  imagined  more  impolitic,  especially  at  the  present  mo mo-went,  -went, mo-went, STYLE=superscript  than  the  system  of  increasing  the  sum  of  general  misery,  mot  only  by  keeping  thou  - STYLE=superscript  sands  of  useful  and  industrious  indivi individuals  duals individuals  locked  up  •  within  the  walls  of  our  prisons,  lint,  at  the  same  time,  burdening  the  already  distressed,  though  unimpri unimprisorted,  sorted, unimprisorted,  portion  of  the  community  ith  the  task  of  supporting  those  to  whom  we  deny  the  means  of  stipportit:,  , STYLE=superscript  :  themselves?  Let  any  reasonable  man  put  these  simple  questi  o  n  s  t  o  himself.  There  is  one  particular  consideration,  which,  though  `should  to  have  escaped  the  immedtaten  teree  p  t  i  on  o  f  Sir  _;e*:lnuel  Rnmilly,  ought  to  he  brought  forward.  Of  what  are  our  jail.  likely  to  he  inevitably  composed,  if  the  rigour  of  justice,  as  it  is  called,  is  much  longer  admitted  to  supersede  the  mandatcs  of  mercy  ?  Alas,  are  we  not  obstinately  employed  in  thus  formiPg  tostriorents  for  our  op  n  eventual  destruction  ?  Our  prisons,  Si  . STYLE=superscript  r,  ire  already  filling  with  disalintiou  to  the  existing  government—,  IWARCII  5.  because  it  is  under  this  very  government  that  their  miserable  in inhabitants  habitants inhabitants  are  suffered  to  pine  in  wretchedness  of  all  descriptions  Let  us  then,  however  deaf  we  may  be  to  the  cries  of  humanity,  listen  to  the  pleas  of  policy.  Emptied  our  jails  must  one  day  be;  and  the  longer  we  defer  the  release  of  their  tenants,  the  more  inflexibly  we  persevere  in  this  species  of  hostility  to  our  ulti ultimate  mate ultimate  interests,  the  more  are  we  aggravating  the  spirits  of  men  already  discontented  with  the  present  order  of  things,  and,  of  course,  augmenting  the  dangers  to  which  we  shall  become,  al  lust,  seriously  obnoxious.  Some  amelioration  of  the  existing  rela relationship  tionship relationship  between  debtors  and  creditors  will  be  found  to  be  as  much  a  measure  of  sound  polity  as  it  is  of  true  philanthropy.  Let  us  claim  the  credit  of  performing,  from  motives  of  lima  nity,  what  we  shall  be  otherwise  compelled  to  perform  from  motives  of  necessity.  We  cannot  much  longer  defer  the  libera liberation  tion liberation  of  the  many  thousands  now  laying  in  our  jails  for  debt.  When  this  liberation,  however,  shall  have  been  legally  effected,  still  it  will  he  the  duty  of  our  Legislature  to  consider,  in  com common  mon common  with  Sir  Samuel  Romilly,  those  causes  which,  originating  in  the  coottruction  of  our  Bankrupt  Laws  and  hi  the  present  practice  of  Arrests  fur  Debt,  engender  the  calamities  consequent  on  imprisoning  the  person  of  the  debtor.  Our's  are  ,times  (as  long  they  have  been  !)  when  it  is  impossible  for  any  man,  unless  of  established  opulence,  to  avoid  pecuniary  embarrassments.  Covernment  is  itself  the  greatest  debtor  among  us.  Is  it  not  ab absurd  surd absurd  then,  as  well  as  cruel,  to  persecute  individuals  for  those  defalcations  which  may  arise  from  the  circumstances  of  the  com community  munity community  at  large  ?  I  hope,  Sir,  to  live  long  enough  to  see  this  disgrace,  the  sys system  tem system  of  confining  debtors,  effaced  from  our  national  character.  It  has  always  lowered  us  in  the  estimation  of  foreigners,  and  it  has  inflicted  incalculable  calamities  on  the  persons  and  families  of  our  suffering  countrymen.  Nor  does  the  evil  terminate  in  en engendering  gendering engendering  individual  privatious  and  domestic  destruction.  Pri Prisons,  sons, Prisons,  let  it  be  remembered,  are  not  penitentiaries!  He  who  has  been  long  in  the  Fleet  as  a  debtor,  often  comes  out,  both  as  to  morality  and  property,  with  the  consoling  prospect  of  getting  into  Newgate  as  a  felon.  It  is  thus,  indeed,  that  individuals  become  criminal,  families  degenerated  and  dissolved  ;  and  society  generally,  from  these  and  other  concurring  causes,  is  filled  th  delinquents  vutt  .ne-naced  with  desolation.  Let  us,  in  this  hour  of  tremendcas  tribulation,  sedulously  endeavour  to  conciliate  all  description,  of  men  in  favour  of  our  political  constitution  ;  by  allowing  tr.:e  agency  to  its  benign  influence  among  them,  and  extending  to  them,  whether  civilly  or  religiously,  the  privileges  which  it  is  so  nobly  calculated  to  impart.  If  we  would  make  our  country  loved,  let  us,  as  one  of  our  greatest  statesmen  ad advised,  vised, advised,  hasten  to  make  it  lovely  !  March  2,  1809.  BlIRONS•  FOREIGN  INTELLIGENCE.  THIRTY-SECOND  BULLETIN  OF  THE  FRENCH  ARMY  IN  SPAIN.  The  Doke  of  Dalmatia,  being  arrived  before  Ferrol,  caused  the  place  to  be  invested.  Negatiations  were  begun.  The  Civil  Authorities,  and  the  Military  and  Naval  Officers,  manifested  a  disposition  to  surrender;  but  the  people,  fomented  by  the  spies  whom  the  English  had  left,  resisted.  On  the  24th  the  Duke  of  Dalmatia  reer  , STYLE=superscript  ived  two  messengers,  one  sent  by  Admiral  Mel Melgarejn,  garejn, Melgarejn,  Commander  of  the  Spanish  squadron,  and  the  other,who  came  across  the  mountains,  sent  by  the  Military  Commanders.  These  couriers  were  both  sent  without  the  knowledge  of  the  people.  They  stated  that  the  authorities  were  under  the  yoke  of  a  furious  populace,  excited  and  paid  by  the  agents  of  *Eng *England, STYLE=superscript  land, *England,  and  that  5000  men  belonging  to  the  city  and  its  environs  were  in  arms.  The  Doke  of  Dalmatia  had  to  resolve  upon  open opening  ing opening  the  trenches;  but  from  the  21th  to  the  25th,  various  move movements  ments movements  were  manifest  in  the  town.  The  17th  regiment  of  light  infantry  had  repaired  to  Alt  , STYLE=superscript  ardos  ;  the  31st  regiment  of  light  infantry  were  at  the  forts  of  11  Palma  and  Saint  Martin,  and  at  Lagrana;  and  as  they  blockaded  the  fort  Saint  Philip,  the  peo people  ple people  began  to  tear  the  consequences  of  an  assault,  and  to  listen  to  men  of  sense.  On  the.  '.26th,  three  110  of  Inter,  fu  rubbed  with  authority,  and  the  annexed  letter,  arrived  at  the  head headquarters,  quarters, headquarters,  and  s,igned  the  surrender  of  the  place.  On  the  lath,.  at  seven  o'clock  in  the  morning  the  town  was  occu occupied  pied occupied  by  the  di  vison  Mermot,  and  by  a  brigade  of  dragoons.  On  the  same  day  the  garria  was  disarmed  ;  the  disarming  also  produced  3000  muskets.  The  people  who  do  not  belong  to  Ferro',  have  been  remanded  to  their  villages.  The  •  men  whe"
