text
"COURT  OF  INQUIRY,  REPORT  OF  THE  BOARD  TO  HIS  MAJESTY.  MAT  IT  PLEASE  YOVE  MAJESTY.  We,  the  underwritten  General  Officers  of  the  Army,  ip  obedience  to  your  Majesty's  warrant,  which  hears  date  t:!e  Ist  day  of  November  1808,  commanding  uc STYLE=superscript  strictly  to  inquire  iLto  the  conditions  ofa  Suspension  of  Arms,  concluded  •n  the  August,  1808,  between  your  Majesty's  arms  in  Portugal,  and  the  French  force  in  that  country—and  also  into  a  Definitive  Con.  vention,concluded  with  the  French  General  commanding  on  the  S  I  st  A  !lust  following—also  into  all  the  causes  and  circumstances  (whether  arising  from  the  previous  operations  of  the  British  army,  or  otherwise,  which  led  to  them)—and  into  the  conduct,  behaviour,  and  proceedings  of  Lieut.-General  Sir  Hew  Dalrym Dalrymple,  ple, Dalrymple,  and  such  other  Commander  or  ComManders  of  your  Ma MaeAy's  eAy's MaeAy's  forces  in  Portugal—and  of  any  other  person  or  per,ollF,  as  far  as  the  same  were  connected  ith  the  said  Armistice,  Suspen Suspension  sion Suspension  of  Arms,  and  Convention—and  to  report  to  your  !Majesty  a  state  thereof,  as  it  shall  appear,  together  with  our  opinion  there thereon,  on, thereon,  and  also  our  opinion,  whether  any,  and  what  further  pro proceedings  ceedings proceedings  should  be  had  thereupon.  We  have,  at  several  meetings,  perused  and  considered  your  Majesty's  orders  and  instructions  as  transmitted  to  us  by  the  Right  Hon.  Lord  Castlereagh,  your  Majesty's  Principal  Secretary  Of  State,  together  with  sundry  letters,  and  other  papers,  therewith  traosmittod.  And  have  heard  and  examined  Lieut.-General  Sir  11T..b  Dalrymple,  Si!  Harry  llarrard,ancl•Sir  Arthur  Wellesley.  and  other  principal  Officers  employed  on  the  said  Exl  odition,  with  such  witnesses  as  any  of  them  desired.  And  also  such  other  persons  as  seemed  to  us  most  likely  to  give  any  material  informa information.  tion. information.  And  in  order  that  your  Majesty  •may  be  fully  possessed  of  every  circumstance  which  has  appared  in  the  course  of  this  In Inquiry.  quiry. Inquiry.  We  beg  leave  to  lay  before  your  Majesty  the  whole  of  our  Examinatimis  and  Proceeding  3,  to  this  our  Report  annexed.  —  And  upon  the  most  diligent  and  careful  review  of  the  whole  matter,  we  do,  in  further  obedience  to  your  Itoyal  command,  most  humbly  report  to  your  Majesty  follows  au  Ab Abstractof  stractof Abstractof  the  Evidence,  which  has  already  appeared  from  time  to  time  in  TII  C  I  NQUISJTOR.]  The  Report  then  proeeeds  as  follows  :  it  appears  that  some  of  the  principal  advantages  to  arise  from  the  Convention  were  in  the  contemplation  of  the  Cenerals.  That  it  immediately  liberated  the  kingdom  of  tngal  from  the  dominion  of  the  French,  thereby  restorin;  to  the  inhabitants  their  capital  and  fortresses,  their  principal  sea-ports,  their  per personal  sonal personal  liberty,  property,  religion,  and  established  government.  P4_TB00015 •  te."
