text
"TTIE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  SG.  on  and  obstinately'  contested,  to  the  enclosed  report  of  Lieut.-  Gen  oral  'lope,  who  succeeded  to  the  command  of  the  army:,  and  to  whose  ability  and  exertions  in  direction  of  the  ardent  zeal  and  unconquerable  valour  of  his  Majesty';  troops,  h  to  he  attributed,  under  Providence,  the  success  of•  the  day,  which  terminated  in  the  complete  and  entire  repulse  and  defeat  of  the  enemy  at  every  point  of  attack.  The  lion.  Captain  Gordon,  my  Aide-de-Camp,  will  have  the  honour  of  delivering  this  dispatch,  and  will  he  able  to  give  your  Lordship  any  further  information  which  may  he  required.  I  have  the  honour  to  he,  &amp;c.  -  D.  BAIRN,  Lieut.-Gen.  Right  Hon.  Lord  Viscount  Castlereagh.  His  Majesty's  ship  Audacious  off  Corunna,  January  IS,  1809.  in  compliance  with  the  desire  contained  in  your  communica communicataut  taut communicataut  of  yesterday,  I  avail  myself  of  the  first  moment  I  have  been  able  to  command,  to  detail  to  you  the  occurrences  of  the  action  which  took  place  in  front  of  Corunna  on  the  16th  inst.  It  will  be  in  your  recollevion,  that  about  one  in  the  afternoon  of  that  day,  the  enemy,  who  had  in  the  morning  received  rein reinforcements,  forcements, reinforcements,  and  ho  had  placed  some  guns  in  front  of  the  right  and  left  of  his  line,  was  observed  to  be  moving  troops  towards  his  left  flank,  and  forming  various  columns  of  attack  at  that  extremity  of  the  strong  and  commanding  position  which  on  the  morning  of  the  15th  he  had  taken  in  our  immediate  front.  This  indication  of  hie  intention  was  immediately  succeeded  by  the  rapid  and  determined  attack  which  he  made  upon  our  divi division  sion division  which  occupied  the  right  of  our  position.  The  events  which  occurred  during  that  period  of  the  action  you  are  fully  acquainted  with.  The  first  effort  of  the  enemy  was  met  by  the  Commander  of  the  forces,  and  by  yourself,  at  the  head  of  the  Cd  regiment,  and  the  brigade  under  Major  General  Lord  Wm.  lientinck.  The  village  on  your  right  became  an  object  of  obstinate  con contest.  test. contest.  _  _  .1  lament  to  my,  that  soon  after  the  severe  wound  which  de deprived  prived deprived  the  army  of  your  services,  Lieutenant-General  Sir  John  Aloore,  who  had  just  directed  the  most  able  disposition,  fell  by  a  cannon-shot.  The  troops,  though  not  unacquainted  with  the  irreparable  loss  they  had  sustained,  were  not  dismayed,  but  by  the  most  determined  bravery  not  only  repelled  every  attempt  of  the  enemy  to  gain  ground,  but  actually  forced  him  to  retire,  al although  though although  he  had  brought  up  fresh  troops  in  support•  of  those  ori originally  ginally originally  engaged.  The  euemy,  finding  himself  foiled  in  every  attempt  to  force  the  right  of  the  Position,  endeavoured  by  numbers  to  turn  it.  A  judicious  and  well-timed  movement  which  was  made  by  Ma Major-General  jor-General Major-General  Paget,  with  the  reserve,  which  Corps  had  moved  out  of  its  Cantonments  to  support  the  R  ight  of  the  Army,  by  a  rigorous  attack  ,  defeated  this  intention.  The  Major-General,  hating  pushed  forward  the  95th  (rifle  corps),  and  lvt  battalion  52d  regiments,  drove  the  enemy  before  him,  and  in  his  rapid  and  judicious  advance,  threatened  the  left  of  the  enemy's  position.  This  circumstance,  with  the  position  of  Lieut.-(:en.  e'raser's  division  (calculated  to  give  still  further  security  to  the  right  of  the  line),  induced  the  enemy  to  relax  his  etfart  in  that  quarter.  They  were  however  more  forcibly  directed  to  A%  arils  the  centre,  Noliere  they  were  again  successfully  resisted  by  the  brigade  under  Major-General  Manningliam,  forming  the  left  of  Sour  division,  and  a  part  of  that  under  Major-General  Leith,  forming  the  right  of  the  division  under  my  orders.  Upon  the  left,  the  enemy  at  first  contented  himself  with  an  attack  upon  our  pique's,  which  however  in  general  maintained  their  ground.  Finding  however  his  efforts  unavailing  on  the  right  and  centre,  he  seemed  de determined  termined determined  to  reader  the  attack  upon  the  left  more  serious,  and  had  succeeded  in  obtaining  possession  of  the  village  through  which  the  great  road  to  Madrid  passes,  and  which  was  situnted  in  front  of  that  part  of  the  line.  From  this  ost,  however,  he  was  soon  expelled,  with  considerable  foss,  by  a  gallant  attack  of  some  companies  of  the  _second  battalion  14th  Regiment,  under  Lieut.  Col.  Niccolls;  before  Ave  in  the  evening,  we  had  not  only  successfully  repelled  every  attack  made  upon  the  position,  but  had  gained  ground  in  almost  al)  points,  and  occupied  a  more  forward  line,  than  at  the  com commencement  mencement commencement  of  the  action,  whilst  the  enemy  confined  his  opera operations  tions operations  to  a  cannonade,  and  the  tire  of  hislight  troops,  with  a  view  to  drlw  off  his  other  corps.  At  six  the  tiring  entirely  ceased.  The  different  brigades  were  re-assembled  on  the  ground  they  oc occ•inied  c•inied occ•inied  in  the  morning,  and  the  piquet&amp;  and  advanced  posts,  re resumed  sumed resumed  their  original  stations.  Notwithstanding  the  decided  and  marked  superiority  which  at  this  moment  the  gallantry  of  the  troops  had  given  them  over  JAN.  2f)  .  .  an  enemy,  who  from  his  numbers  and  the  commanding  advan advantagei  tagei advantagei  of  his  position,  no  doubt  expected  an  easy  victory,  I  did  not,  on  reviewing  all  circumstances,  conceive  that  I.  should  he  warranted  in  departing  from  what  I  knew  was  the  fixed  and  pre previous  vious previous  determination  of  the  late  commander  to  withdraw  -  the  army  on  the  evening  of  the  16th,  for  the  purpose  of  embark  -  ation,  the  previous  arrangements  for  which  had  already  been  made  by  his  order,  and  were  in  fact  far  advanced  at  the  com commencement  mencement commencement  of  the  action.  The  troops  quitted  their  position  about  ten  at  night,  with  a  degree  of  order  that  did  them  credit.  The  whole  of  the  artillery  that  remained  tmembarked,  having  been-  is  ithdrawn,  the  troops  followed  in  the  order  prescribed,  and  marched  to  their  respective  points  of  embarkation  in  the  town  and  neighbourhood  of  Corunna.  The  piquets  remained  at  their  posts  until  five  on  the  morning  of  the  17th,  when  they  were  also  withdrawn  with  similar  orders,  and  without  th.'  rue ruemy  my ruemy  having  discovered  the  movement.  By  the  unremitted  exertion  of  Captains  the  lion.  11.  Curzon,  Cossselin,  Boss,  Rainier,  Secret,  Haw  . STYLE=superscript  kins,  Dishy,  Carden,  and  Mackeozie,  of  the  Ros  al  Navy,  who,  in  pursuance  of  the  orders  of  Rear  Admiral  de  Courcv,  were  entrusted  with  the  service  of  embarking  the  army  ;  and  in  consequence  of  the  arrangements  made  by  Commissioner  Bowen,  Capt.  Bowen  amid  Shepherd,  and  the STYLE=superscript  other  Agents  for  transports,  the  whole  of  the  army  was  embarked  with  au  expedition  which  has  seldom  been  equalled.  With  the  exception  of  the  brigades  under  Major  Generals  11111  and  Beresford,  which  mere  destined  to  remain  on  shore,  moil  the  movements  of  the  enemy  should  become  manifest,  the  whole  was  afloat  before  day-light.  The  brigade  of  Major-General  Beresford,  which  was  alter alternately  nately alternately  to  form  our  rear-guard,  occupied  the  land  front  of  the  town  of  Comma;  that  under  Major-General  Hill  was  stationed  in  reserve  on  the  prmuontory  hi  rear  of  the  town.  The  enemy  pushed  the  light  troops  towards  the  town  soon  after  eight  o'clock  in  the  morning  of  the  17  th,  and  shortly  after  occu occupied  pied occupied  the  heights  of  St.  Lucia,  which  command  the  harbour.  But  notwithstanding  this  circumstance,  and  the  manifest  detects  of  the  place,  there  being  no  apprehension  that  the  rear-guard  could  be  forced,  and  the  disposition  of  the  Spaniards  appear appearing  ing appearing  to  he  good,  the  embarkation  of  Major-General  It  ill's  brigade  was  commenced  and  completed  by  three  in  the  after afternoon;  noon; afternoon;  Major-Gen.  Beresford,  with  that  zeal  and  ability  which  is  so  well  known  to  y  ourself  and  the  army,  having  fully  explain explained,  ed, explained,  to  the  satisfaction  of  the  Spanish  Governor,  the  nature  of  our  movement,  and  having  made  every  previous  arrangement,  withdrew  his  corps  from  the  Land  !rout  of  the  town  soon  after  dark,  and  was,  with  all  the  w  minded  that  had  not  been  pre,  viously  moved,embarked  before  one  this  morning.  Circumstances  forbid  us  to  indulge  the  hope,  that  the  Vic,  tory  with  which  it  has  pleased  providence  to  crown  the  efforts  of  the  army,  can  be  attended  w  it  h  any  very  brilliant  consequences  to  Great  Britain.  It  is  clouded  by  the  loss  of  one  of  her  best  soldiers.  It  has  been  atchieved  at  the  termination  of  a  long  amid  barrassing  service.  The  superior  numbers  of  the  enemy  ,  not  less  than  the  actual  situation  of  this  army,  did  not  admit  of  any  advantage  being  reaped  from  success.  It  must  be  however  to  you  the  sweetest  reflection  that  the  lustre  of  the  British  arms  has  been  maintained,  amidst  many  disadvantageous  circumstan circumstances.  ces. circumstances.  The  army  which  had  entered  Spain,  amidst  the  fairest  prospects,  had  no  sooner  eompleated  its  junetion,  than  owing  to  the  multiplied  disasters  that  dispersed  the  native  armies  around  us,  it  was  left  to  its  own  resources.  The  advance  of  the  British  corps  from  the  Duero,  afforded  the  hest  hope  that  the  South  of  Spain  might  be  relieved,  by  this  generous  effort  to  save  the  unfortunate  people,  also  afforded  the  enemy  the  opportunity  of  directing  every  effort  of  his  numerous  troops,  and  concentrating  all  his  principal  resources  for  the  de destruction  struction destruction  of  the  only  regular  force  in  the  North  of  Spain.  You  are  well  aware  with  what  diligence  this  system  has  been  pursued.  These  circumstances  produced  the  necessity  of  rapid  awl  liar liarrinsing  rinsing liarrinsing  marches,  which  had  diminished  the  numbers,  exhausted  the  strength,  and  impaired  the  equipment  of  the  army.  All  these  disadvantages,  and  those  more  immediately  attached  to  a  defensive  Position,  which  the  imperious  necessity  of  covering  toe  harbour  of  Corunna  for  a  time  had  rendered  indispposable  to  assume,  the  native  and  undaunted  valour  of  British  trulops  was  never  more  conspicuous,  and  must  have  exceeded  what  even  your  own  experience  of  that  invaluable  quality,  so  inherent  In  them,  may  have  taught  you  to  expect.  When  every  one  that  kad  an  opportunity  scented  to  vie  in  improving  it,  it  is  difficult  for  me,  in  making  this  report,  to  select  particular  instances  for  your  Nl Nlprobation.  probation. Nlprobation.  The  corps  chiefly  engaged  were  the  Brigades  under  P12_TB00010 F'  2"
