text
"disre4:lrd,  or  coo:teni.  The  most  :Ilion-sighted  are  seosit,le,  that  the  disa,ters  which  menace  us  accumulate,  and  are  coming  10  a  crisis;  and  we  feel.  nevertliele,  , STYLE=superscript  s,  an  increasing  reluctance  to  prepare  seriously  fur  the  event,  and  postpone,  from  nit!.  to  day,  w  ith  unaccountable  remissness  and  L•vity,  to  adopt  the  ne necessary  cessary necessary  means  of  resi.tance.  We  ntsgleet  ourselves,  aod  do  no nothing  thing nothing  for  others  ;  and,  whatever  he  the  result  of  the  impeading  struggle,  we  blush  to  confess,  that  our  present  vigour,  or  fore foresight,  sight, foresight,  is  not  adequate  to  meet  its  pressure.  These  reflections,  humiliating  as  they  are,  present  themselves,  on  adverting  to  the  approaching  contest  between  Austria  and  France.  We  appear  to  manifest  as  much  indifference  on  the  occasion,  as  if  it  were  a  dispute  between  two  Indian  tribes.  No  preparations  are  made  by  Government,  no  strong  inter..st  is  displayed  by  the  public  ;  and  we  shew  the  same  remissness  though  infinitely  less  enthusiasm,  than  we  did  in  the  case  of  Spanish  resistance.  Our  negligence  and  inaction  blasted  every  hope  which  that  propitious  occurrence  hatl  justified  ;  and  we  now  purine  the  same  conduct,  after  experience  has  snewn  its  disgraceful  and  ruinous  tendency.  We  were  among  the  mot  at  . STYLE=superscript  -  (eat  advocates  in  favour  of  vigorous  policy  in  support  of  the  Spanish  Patriots  ;  and  however  unsuccessful  oar  effort*  have  been,  however  disappointed  our  hopes,  we  will  still  persevere  in  recommending  and  impressing  its  utility.  It  is  equal  who  the  people  are;  their  co-operation  in  the  same  cause  cancels  every  former  iiijury  ;  and  they  are  affiliated  the  moment  they  evince  ,  a  desire  to  he  free.  Austrians  or  Spaniards,  Russians  or  Turks,  they  become  instantly  naturalised  Britons,  as  soon  as  they  have  declared  themselves  enemies  of  Frances  and  this  single  act  givOs  them  a  sight  to  our  armies  and  treasures.  Enmity  to  am  abort*•  nable  and  hated  country,  is  friendship  to  us;  and  resistance  to  tyranny  should  couonsand  the  services  and  esteem  of  freemen.  We  discard  totally,  from  our  code  of  political  morality,  the  ob obliption  liption obliption  of  philanthropy  to  a  state,  which  aims  at  our  destruc destruc;  ; destruc;  and,  so  far  from  R3  . STYLE=superscript  3npattlising,  we  would  glory  hi  its  dis disasters.  asters. disasters.  Sentiments,  like  these,  produced  the  astonishing  effect%  we  admire  in  GI  eciati  and  Roman  history  ;  and  similar  senti:  meats  are  atone  capable  of  producing  among  other  nations  siini/ar,  egects.  Were  these  feelings  strongly  ingrafted  in  the  hearts  of  our  countrymen,  and  regulated  the  policy  of  govermnent,  every  anx anxiety  iety anxiety  about  our  future  fortunes  would  he  chimerical  ;  and  we  could  laugh  at  the  menaces  and  unavailing  rage  of  a  loathsortte  and  unprincipled  tyrant.  Whatever  people  rose  to  resist  our  navy  would  transport,  with  the  rapidity  and  execution  of  intense  hatred,  a  formidable  army  to  assist  their  efforts.  At  the  slightest  demonstration  of  Spain  or  Austria  to  that  effect,  our  entire  military  force  would  have  meuaced,  like  a  black  cloud,  the  enemy's  coasts;  and  if  a  particle  of  the  spirit  of  our  fore forefathers  fathers forefathers  remain,  the  first  cannon  that  is  fired  on  the  Danube,  will  he  the  signal  of  our  renovated  energy.  Let  us  imagine  then,  that  Ministers,  sensible  at  last  of  the  dhgraCeful  and  weak  part  the  country  has  acted  under  their  auspices,  would  adopt  measures  of  foreign  policy  more  confor conformable  mable conformable  to  our  ancient  maxims,  and  the  alinost  inexhaustible  rc  sources  of  the  State.  It  might  then  he  asked,  how  they  could  wield  the  energies  of  the  empire  A%  ith  any  effectual  advantage  to  Austria,--a  country  situated  at  so  considerable  a  distance  frora  ours?  The  reply  to  this  objection  is,  that  they  need  ouly  at  here  to  the  very  plan,  which  they  so  unfortunately  pursued  relatise  Spain,  namely,  to  effect  a  diversion  as  remote  ai  possible  from  the  direct  scene  of  hostilities.  A  change  of  circumstances  ren renders  ders renders  imperiously  urgent,  what  was  the  highest  impolicy  at  that"
