text
"heat  high  from  the  honest  coin  iction,  that,  by  well-directed  in industry,  dustry, industry,  they  had  been  enabled  to  pay  all  thoso  debts  which  they  had  formerly  incurred.  The  'lon,  Member  then  coneluded  moving  for  leave  to  bring  in  a  Bill  to  alter  and  amend  the  Bank  •  rupt  Laws.—l.eave  granted.  The  A  1  CE  1.3.0  It  of  the  Ex('  n  17911  ER  moved  the  third  read reading  ing reading  of  the  Sugar  Distillation  Bill  :  after  a  fzw  words  from  sir  .lames  Hall  who  opposed  the  Bill,  and  from  Air.  DaN  is  'l%  hu  supported  it,  the  Bill  wai  read  a  third  time  and  passed.  The  other  orders  of  the  day  were  then  disposed  of  t  and  the  House  adjourned.  ThursdaN,  .11arch  9.  SC  97(11  It  1:CO  it  DS.  The  Loan  A  nvocATr.  for  SuoTt.A.ND,  while  he  admitted  that  in  its  original  concoction,  there  was  no  s  stem  MOW  pletely  calculated  to  produce  the  desired  effect,  than  that  which  had  been  adopted  in  Scotland  for  the  preservation  of  its  records,  declared  his  conviction,  that  still  there  was  I)  sv  stem  w  hick,  by  the  lapse  of  time,  might  not  require  improvement.  Such  was  the  situation  with  the  regulations  for  the  preservation  of  thp  Records  in  Scutlaud,  His  wish,  however,  was,  Dot  to  do  away  the  cx  istihg  u:ulations,  but  gradually  to  ameliorate  and  im improve  prove improve  them.  lie  concluded  by  moving  for  leave  to  bring  in  3  Bill  for  the  better  regulating  the  public  records  of  Scotland.  twelve  was  accordingly  givel,  and  the  Lord  Alvocate,  Sir  I'.  Murray,  Mr.  H.  Dundas,  &amp;c.  were  authorised  to  prepare  and  bring  in  the  same.—Adjourned.  Friday,  hArch  3.  •  A  message  from  the  Lords  announced  that  their  Lordships  had  agreed  to  the  Irish  Militia  Enlistment  Bill.  The  Vauxhall  Bridge  Bill,  to  enable  the  subscribers  to  collect  a  capital,  sue  and  he  sued,  build  houses,  and  purchase  landote  t  was  read  a  first  time.  Mr.  Lo  ('  -  -  KIIART  brought  in  a  Bill  tiApra  the  Golden-lane  Brewery  to  sue  and  be  managers.  Sir  S.  ROM  ILLY  brought  up  the  lit  laws  now  in  force  concerning  bankrup  time,  and  ordered  to  he  read  a  second  19th  inst.  and  in  the  meentione  to  be  G  Emma  T.  CI,  V  E  Mr.  WI'S  N  E  called  the  atteatipm  of  ta  u  If  ouse  to  the  conduct  of  this  officer  when  he  •was  examined  before  the  Committee  of  the  whole  House  respectin  his  knowledge  of  Mrs.  Clark's  terference  with  military  promotions.  lo  his  own  mind,  the  belief  of  General  elavering's  having  grossly  prevaricated  wal  strongly  impressed,  and,  under  that`  conviction,  no  had  on  a  formf.r  eventig  made  a  motion  upon  the  sullied,  which  he  was;  •  aftemards  induced  to  withdraw,  at  the  suggestions  of  variou4  Members„who  thought  it  would  be  more  properly  di  ett.:sed  winat,  the  minutes  shquid  be  printed  and  distributed,  and  every  Geatto  t  man  rod&amp;  refreshiiii(anemory  with  those  parts  of  the  testitany  wltieh',.intatht  heroine  the  sullject  of  debate.  Ile  thought  that  General  (layering's  own  friends  would  be  nn‘itia,,  for  a  speedy  decisiiie  of  the  House  respecting  him.  To  support  the,  motion  w  Welt  he  should  have  the  honour  to  make,  he  should  call  the  attention  of  the  House  to  the  circumstances  of  the  case.  In  the  first  place,  General  Clavering  had  offered  himself  as  a  vo voluntary  luntary voluntary  It  - STYLE=superscript  loess,  without  solicitation.  Dad  he  been  compelled  to  attend  the  House,  prevarication  might  have  been  more  ex-,  cusable  '  because  a  w  itness  so  situated  would  endeavour  to  pr  o  t  ec  t  himself,  but:43eneral  Clavering,  who  offered  to  invalidate  the  testimeityliCiimither„  and  a  material  lyjtngss,  was  entitled  to  no  indulgente.'  That  General  paVering  had  prevaricated  he  believed  tq  GOtleman  wo  ‘  fild  entertain  the  lest  domht,  if  thity  peruse  the  minutes  of  the  •  evidence.  The  non.  Member  then  read  questions  and  aufswers  from  General  elaverines  evidence.  After  which  he  moved,  That  it  was  the  opinion  of  the  Douse  that  General  Clavering  had  grossly  4)revaricated  in  the  evidence  which  he  had  given  at  the  Sir  M  ATII  VW  WHITE  It  tot.Ey  4tated,  that  General  Clavens  ing,  in  his  examination,  had  no  intention  of  prevaricating  when  he  was  examined  ;  and  proposed,  berore  they  should  come  to  a  vote,  that  the  Duke  of  . STYLE=superscript  Argyle,  to  whom  . STYLE=superscript  the  (ieneral  was  relat  f  ed  by  marriage,  should  be  permitted  to  give  evidence  at  the  Bar,  to  confirm  the  conversation  which  General  Clavering  had  in  his  examination  stated  to  have  had  with  him.  General  Clavering  ha  4  been  in  the  service  of  his  country  since  he  was  14  years  of  age,  and  had  always  conducted  himself  in  a  manner  becoming  the  charactej  P7_TB00011 to  onabk  the  proprietors  et  e  sued  in  the  names  of4heir  bill  to  alter  twit  )  •  tpts,.  t  .  •  .o:et  )  •  ri  tit  p  •  chi  '  prime  ."
