text
"REGISTER.  On  Saturtkiy  morning  he  sent  otrthe  coach'lntsi,  pith  their  lug luggage  gage luggage  and  the  carriage,  from  Bath  to  go  to  London,  with  direc directions  tions directions  to  be  in  London  on  Monday  afternoon;  and  his  not  haring  arrived  on  Tuesday  evening,  gave  some  re:lAm  to  suspect  from  the  description  of  the  footman,  that  his  (.mlOllll3ll  had  taken  one  of  his  horses  to  commit  the  robbery.  On  Wednesday  morning,  on  its  being  known  that  a  man  had  been  taken  by  lite  horse-patrole,  for  the  robbery  of  Mr.  Mestaer,  Mr.  Brdham  attended  at  the  office,  till  the  tr.an  in  custody  was  brought  ,in  ;  he  was  then  con's  ineed  it  *as'  not  his  coachman';  his  alarm  was  increased  for  the  safety  of  his  carriage,  and  he  employed  Ad Adkins  kins Adkins  to  go  in  search  of  it.  A  post  chaise  was  ordered  for  that  purpose,  and  about  four  o'clock,  when  Adkins  was  ready  toset  off,  Mr.  Brabant  came  with  great  speed  to  the  office,  to  say  the  coachman  had  ,just  arrived  with  the  carriage  safe  ;  and  the  (awe  assigned  by  the  coachman  for  being  sueh  length  of  time  was,  that  the  roads  were  in  such  a  bad  state,  be  -could  nut  tra travel  vel travel  any  faster.  •  _  Thu.7...lay,  William  Luck,  the  man  apprehended  on  Tuesdav  evenin?.  last,  in  Surrey,  on  suspicion  of  various  highway  rolibe roliberies,  ries, roliberies,  was  re-examined  before  James  Read.  Esq.  NI  - STYLE=superscript  hen  Mr.  Da,:iel  Bird,  of  Epsom,  attended,  and  gave  an  account  of  his  being  robbed  on  Tuesday  last,  about  two  miles  this  side  of  ).11  ?  som,  by  two  highway  men,  one  of  whom  he  believed  to  be  the  prisoner  at  the  bar,  and  positively  identified  a  receipt  the  pri prisoner  soner prisoner  was  seen  to  drop,  soon  after  he  was  'alien  into  custody  ;  the  circumstances  of  his  apprehension  corroborating  the  suspi suspicion,  cion, suspicion,  the  parties  were  bound  over  to  prosecute  him  for  this  of offence  fence offence  at  next  assizes  for  the  county  of  Surrey.  Mr.  and  Mrs.  Mestaer  nttended,  and  related  the  particulars  of  their  being  robbed  on  Monday  evening  last,  between  Layton Laytonstone  stone Laytonstone  and  Wanstead,  but  could  not  possitively  identify  the  pri prisoner,  soner, prisoner,  though  Mrs.  M.  believed  him  to  be  one  of  the  men,  and  spoke  positively  to  one  of  the  horses  produced  at  the  Office  door  '  as  being  the  same  the  robber  was  upon  at  the  time.  Some  other  person  appeared,  who  had  been  robbed  on  Mon Monday  day Monday  and  Tuesday  evening,  but  they  did  not  know  the  Prisoner;  he  was  ordered  to  be  brought  up  again  on  Thursday  next.  ACCIDENTS  AND  OFFENCES.  Thursday  morning  ai  the  workmen  were  clearing  away  the  ruins  of  Covent-GardeeTheatre,  at  the  Piazza  door,  muter  the  place  where  the  Phoenix  engine  was  so  unfortunately  dostroved  with  the  firemen  attending  it,  by  the  falling  in  of  the  arch,  w  ben  they  came  to  the  cistern,  they  found  the  body  of  a  mon.  not  bun:-  ed,  but  much  bruised.  Mr.  Webb,  of  Tottenham-Co-art-Row%  had  missed  his  only  son  since  the  unfortunate  catastrophe  of  the  tire.  lie  had  made  inquiry,  but  in  vain—advertised  him,  but  to  no  effect;  he  flattered  himself  and  his  anxious  family  with  the  hope  that  he  had  been  impressed  into  the  navy,  or  trapanned  into  a  regiment  of  the  line.  As  soon  as  the  body  was  found,  word  was  sent  to  Mr.  Webb;  he  arrived  in  about  ten  minutes  on  horseback,  and  exclaimed,  If  he  he  my  son,  he  has  laced  hoots  on,  and  a  silver  watch,  chain,  and  seals  in  his  This  descrip description  tion description  was  correct,  and  the  parent  appeared  lost  in  affliction.  The  body  was  removed  in  ashen,  at  twelve  o'clock,  to  Covent Coventgarden  garden Coventgarden  watch-house.  A  Coroner's  Inquest  was  held  on  the  body  yesteaday—The  Jury  gave  a  Verdict  of  Accidental  Death.  A  curious  species  of  robbery  occurred  in  the  mail  coach  last  week  between  Edinburgh  and  Carlisle.  A  Gentleman  had  taken  his  seat  in  the  mail  from  the  former  city,  and  on  paying  his  fare,  pulled  out  hl4  purse,  which  contained  about  twenty  gnineas,  and  then  returned  it  into  a  breast  pocket  of  his  waistcoat.  An  arch  rogue  observingthis,  likewise  took  seat  in  the  mail  to  Car Car;  ; Car;  lisle,  on  speculation.  Before  the  Gentleman  had  arTiied  at  Mosspaule,  he  fell  asleep  in  the  coach,  and  the  fellow  dexter dexter;  ; dexter;  ously  picked  his  pocket.  At  Mosspaule  the  pickpocket  de de-1  -1 de-1  camped,  and  the  Gentleman  did  not  miss  his  purse  until  he  ar arrived  rived arrived  at  Carlisle."
