text
":THE  NATIONAL  REGIS  ..  _.  •f.4r)i  ,&#34;•)';  1 STYLE=superscript  ;!'  l STYLE=superscript  l2O.  •  k  •..  •  •  1%1  . STYLE=superscript  0.  53.  SUNDAY,  JA  ,  •  TO  QUI,  TIIE  PUBLIC:  ,  .  Flattered  by,  and,  at  the  same  time,  grateful  for,  the  encou encouragement  ragement encouragement  which  TUE  NATION  At.  REGISTER  fias  received;  since  Its  first  appearance,we  seize,  with  alacrity,  the  occasion  of  a  New  Year  to  express  our  high  souse  of  this  reception  We  proMised  much,  when  we  first  announced  it  to  the  Public;  and  no  pains  have  been  spared  since  that  time  to  fulfil  this  eligagettie•t.  It  is  not  for  us  to  Merinine  how  far  we  hive  answered  tht  p'ut;tie  expectation;  Hitt  tht  rapid  increase  of  it.;  circulation  h  an  ho honourable  nourable honourable  remuneration  for  the  exertions  we  have  Made.  ror  a  t).t  r  ICE*  SPA  P  kit  to  remain  even  stationary,  w  heti  almost  every  week  presents  a  new  competitor,  is,  at  least,  a  negative  t  commendation  of  its  worth  how  much  higher  must  our  Cation  be,  at  the  et  fraardtilacy  auguientittou  it  tontinuet  to  i.e-'  `ee.ive  z STYLE=superscript  '  O  gift'  nt  Price  of  taper  hs  . STYLE=superscript  iiitiuceti  tie  f‘rispriciors  •  of  some  otker  Sunday  Papers  to  appeal  to  their  Subscribers;  and!  to  consider  It  as  a  justification  tor  raising  considerably  their  pecuniary  value.  The  Pao  t'Rfl  sorTH  R  NATioN  it  11-  •  GIST  En.  have  likewise  been  - STYLE=superscript  Cted  to  this  inconvenience;  and  even  greater  than  those  allude  to  as  above,  frOM  this  augineola augineolation,  tion, augineolation,  but  are  determined  to  keep  it  at  its  present  standird,  front  a  reluctance  to  deviate  fram  their  first  engagement.  This  ill  ilioduee,  howbier,  nO  relalxition  in  tifeit'  exertions  ;  on  the  Contrary,  they  hope  that  every  subsequent  nuinVer  will  Manifest  nevi  proofs  of  their  teu.l  atld  perseverance  to  render  it  of  more  earnl  utility.  t  is,  perhaps,  unnecessary  to  'advert  to  its  political  princi principles;  ples; principles;  their  Subscribers  are  able  to  appreciate  their  tendency.  .14b0.16intellt0'  it  expresses  in  the  disclission  of  every  subject;  that  •  .lia  t  etinAlitetest  reference  to  the  interests  of  the  corrimunity;  is  tin  unenuivocal  proof  of  their  sincerity  ;  and;  however  liable  to  error  they  may  be  in  Collllllolk  with  other  jouriwilists,  they.  can,  with  sotie  conseitiosness  of  integrity  and  little  fear  of  coteL  tradietion,  aver,  that  they  are  guided  in  their  speculations  by  tin  other  Motive  than  that  of  the  public  good.  They  strongly  discictiau  party-views  and  interests;  and  are  always  ready  to  bestow  on  public  men  and  ineasnres  a  just  tribute  of  edninien edninieneation,  eation, edninieneation,  without  first  consulting  whether  they  sit  on,  or  'enianate  front,  tire  opposition  or  Ministerial  benches,  if  they  lay  claim  to  the  suffrages  of  the  P  tiblic,  they  rest,  particularly,  their  Merit  on  their  impartiality  ;  and  the  ardour  of  their  zeal  in  support  of  a  great  and  good  cause,  so  closely  connected  with  the  future  happiiieSx  and  security  of  this  country  (they  advert  to  tkeraus  of  the  Spauish  Patriots)  requires  neither  ex  plattiiiiite  Vir  comment.  They  will  persevere  unremittingly  in  this  career,  tontident  their  exertions  *ill  meet  the  approbation  of  the  houest  ittdd  intelligent.  The  Strlctsres  signed  0:4  have  excited  such  gene-  1  ral  interest,  and  display  such  strong  proofs  of  impartiality  and  ,ludgment,  that  the  Proprietors  feel  a  considerable  degree  of  pleasure,  as  well  as  pride,  ,in  announcing  that  thiti  intelligent  writer  prouii•es  to  favour  theta  with  a  continuance  Of  1114.11tbnurs.  They  therefore  conclude  with  an  assurance  that  the  future  Num Numbers  bers Numbers  of  Tun  N  strtok  A  1,  IttGlSTl:it,so  far  from  dergiellog  from  w  hat  they  have  been  h  ithesto,  w  ill  he  w  r  aims,  ith  greater  care,  and  jester  cluituk  to  public  apptobation.  Our  Ding,  doatitution,  anb  twatO.  iTUARY  1,  1&amp;)9.  ituainxa  -TWO.  POLITICAL'  DISQUISITION.  it  rrt  in  I  gle  RETROSPECTIVE  AND  ,PRESENT  STATE  Olt  s•  POLITICS.  It  i  4  impossible;  with  any  little  Seriousness  or  tlisphsi!-  tion,  to  enter  on  the.  Sew  1  - STYLE=superscript  ear,  without  taking  a  retro retrospective  spective retrospective  view  of  the  last.  In  our  prospect*  of  refOrtnatioh  for  the  futUre;  we  Mild  turn  frequently  and  scrupulously  back  to  the  past,  to  observe  where  our  conduct  hay  heed  doketive.  Rut  our  intention  can  be  attended  with  onthing  but  the  mortification  of  disappointment,  unless  *c  exclude  from  this  examination  -whatever  self-love  it  to  prompt  to  plugs plugsest;  est; plugsest;  in  order  to  palliate  our  former  emus.  What  is  appli applicable-to  cable-to applicable-to  private  life;  is  supremely  true  in  every  thing  which  refers  to  public  toucerns.  Here  -  a  deviation  fromihis  said saidtary  tary saidtary  ride  is  productive  of  confusion  - STYLE=superscript  and  uncertainty  .  and  Governments  betray:  that  alarming,  inconsistency;  ,and  flee fleequation,  quation, fleequation,  to  which  we  may  safely  attribntellail  the  inisfiktuites  arid  disgraces  of.the  last  fifteen  Teari:  To  cscapc  -a  similes  •  imputation,  tif  decide  do  the  propriety  of  pubtiomeasures  during  the  course  of  that  year  we  have  •  noir  quitted,  •b  examice  where  and  how  a  change  ought  to  be  introdheedi  is  the  subject  of  this  disquisition.  We  do.not  recollect  a.  single  year;  and  Should  Ive-gib  !IS  far  back.as  the  beginning  of  tbiesikteenth  century;  •which  commenced  under-  more  unfavorable  auspices  than  the  last.  There  was  not  a  single  State  on  the  Continent;  with  one  or  two  comparatively  trilling  , STYLE=superscript  exeeptions;  that  did  not  voluntarily;  or  by  compulsion;  associate  with  Priam.  is  order  to  effect  our  destruction.  We  were  left;  in  contr.  quence  of  this  unnatural  league;  to  contend  alone  againet  the  united  Awls  and  resources  of  that  Power,  combined  with  Germany,  Italy,  Spain,  Holland;  RUSliai  and  Den Denmark.  mark. Denmark.  Tire  accumulated  means  of  this  powerful  Confe Confederacy  deracy Confederacy  were  placed  at  the  discretion  of  a  man;  whose  ab abhorrence  horrence abhorrence  of  our  nation  was  at  inveterate  as  his  success  was  singular  and  his  talents  comprehensive.  Whatever  re reluctance  luctance reluctance  some  might  have  felt  to  enter  into  this  monstrous  conspiracy;  fear  for  their  don  immediateexistante  deprived  'them  of  the  *ill  of  refusing  their  assent.  They  knetv,  however;  that  in  assisting  to,  effect  our  ruin,  they,were  signing  their  own  destruction  ;  but  the  dreadful  calamities  they  had  a  little  before  suit:tined;  and  the  fulminating  inc incnaces  naces incnaces  of  the  enemy,  who  threatried  still  greater  evils,  if  they  hesitated  to  promote  the  veneance  he  had  denounced  against  us,  silenced  their  fears  and  overpowered  their  re repugnance.  pugnance. repugnance.  The  interdictory  decrees  against  our  commerce,  and  the  subsequent  exclu4ion  of  the  produce  of  our  colonies  and  workshops  frOin  the  Bosphorous  to  the  Neva,  formed  ugly  a  litik  of  the  vast  chain  of  restrictions  to  which  we  were  to  be  subjected.  The  project  of  the  enemy  went  so  far  as  to  cottne  its  literally  to  our  own  shores.  For  this  purpose  .  India  was  to  be  invaded  and  turn  from  us  ;  whilst  the  Asneritau  atnbarja'sbewed  that  a  WON  was  aimed  4  fur  of  ~,  P1_TB00020 iss•  TB  k  .6  6  •  *-;‘  •  '.,  *  .  , STYLE=superscript  t  •,...?  16  (  fry',?,•  .  '  ~.....,.son2E  gd."
