text
"PRIV4TE  CORRESPONDENCE.  SIITIRACT  O  ♦  LZTTI:R.  •  RIECTIVED  Sy  A'  DISTINGVISUED  NOBLEMAN.  •  44 STYLE=superscript  CADIZ,  Dec.  30.—1  send  this  by  the  Melpomene  fri•  ►ate,  arrived  here  with  the  Diamond,  in  36  days  from  Vera  Cruz,  with  four  millions  six  hundred  slid  fifty  thou►and  dollars,  for  the  use  of  our  patriotic  defenders.  Every  true  Spaniard.  both  in  this  place  and  throughout  Andalusia,  is  sensible  of  the  dan dangers  gers dangers  that  threaten  us;  but  they  are  all  prepared  to  meet  them  as  they  should.  We  had  yesterday  several  reports,  which  were  generally  believed.  They  had  at  least  the  appearance  of  general  probability,  as  they  are  founded  on  letters  seut  by  General  Gre•  •  gori,  at  Cordma,  to  Victor,  at  Xeres,  and  transmitted  by  the  latter  to  his  brother  and  others  here.  They  state,  that  in  con consequence  sequence consequence  of  very  important  advantages  recently  gained  by  Pala  fox,  and  the  junction  of  the  British  troops  with  Romans,  the  whole  of  the  French  army  had  evacuated  Madrid  in  two  divi divisions,  sions, divisions,  a  ith  Bonaparte  himself,  and  his  brother  Joseph.  It  it  also  stat,•d  that  the  ;'►ench  with  20,010  men  having  attacked  the  line  of  Barcelona,  forced  it,  after  a  series  of  desperate  actions,  in  which  they  lost  11,000  men.  Orders  have  been  received  here  from  the  British  Minister,  111  r.  rrere,  to  'awl  all  the  money  sent  last  from  England  In  La  Loire  frigate.  'i`iiis  measure  has  inspired  much  confidence,  al although  though although  it  wa  , STYLE=superscript  not  necessary  with  the  but  it  was  gratefully  received  as  expressive  of  the  opinion  of  England  on  the  strength  of  the  country,  and  her  own  readiness  to  snake  every  sacrifice  for  her  allies.  It  proved  a  most  seasonable  supply,  as  well  as  the  money  brought  by  the  Melpomene  and  the  Diamond.  The  :4411  Junto  is  every  day  ex  rected  from  Vera  Cruz  with  eight  tmillinns  ..f  dollars.  All  the  61-c...twins  here  and  over  Andalul..  have  been  proper'  distributed,  a  vast  number  of  pike%  have  been  made,  and  ammunition  in  enthiderahle  quantities  eqllected,  but  the  recruit,  and  levies  are  so  numerou&lt;  that  there  Is  a  general  cry  for  anus.  No  lea;  than  $00,004  stand  of  anus  are  still  waited.  We  learn  from  authority  difficult  to  doubt,  that  General  Moths  has  betrayed  his  King  and  consul.  , STYLE=superscript  .  lad  given  hinitteif  up  to  Bonaparte;  but  being  of  a  very  timid  nature,  it  i!4  ed  that  his  fears  overcame  his  patriotism.  The  public  4,  pinion  rim rimalso  also rimalso  very  strongly  asaiwit  GNliiilloo4  aad  *a  doubt  I  , STYLE=superscript  t-isertained  that  the  French  bad  a  party-at  Madrid  ehiell.  comp  .et  of  per  sons  of  the  highest  rank,  fisewierty  attached  to  . STYLE=superscript  the  ebort  sf  Ferd  . STYLE=superscript  nand,  but  venal  and  selfish  is  their  hearts.  Among  the  reports  in  circulation  is  one  ss  bleb  states  tags  the  Frew+  laid  carried  oft  litany  hostages  from  Madrid,  aad  bud  waft  more  pillaged  that  city.  Our  province  is  in  the  highest  Mate  4  defense,  and  from  it  local  advantages  and  dielcult  passes,  ought  hi  be  impregnable  so  the  whole  force  of  France.  Prime  %sulfurs  is  Captain  tiene tieneral  ral tieneral  of  Andalusia,  and  General  Jones,  the  Govoiroot  of  Cad  is.—  The  Marquis  de  Vine!,  one  of  the  aired  Jam%  is  now  in  this  city.  The  French  who  resided  here  are  all  detailed  in  St.  Ca  -  therior's  Castle,  and  the  crews  of  the  French  stiodsioes  are  closely  gLiarded  on  board  the  bilks.  •Adosiral  Purvit,  it  Mr  Atlas,  is  in  the  Bay,  with  four  frigates,  a  stoop,  mad  a  schooner.  The  Supreme  Junta  hold  their  sittings  at  Seville.  They  a►e  busily  occupied,  and  are  calling  out  'very  inaa  capable  of  bear bearing  ing bearing  arms,  .khose  ages  are  fifteen,  and  do  not  exceed  sixty.  The  peasantry  are  flocking  from  all  parts  of  Andalusia  to  he  enrolled.  The  army  of  Castanos,  though  disperictl  by  the  French,  has  suffered  little,  and  nearly  40,000  men  are  already  collected  under  the  Duke  of  Infantado,  whom  they  have  elected  their  General,  upon  condition  that  he  should  march  them  to  Ma Madrid.  drid. Madrid.  Accordingly  he  was  marching  thither  from  Cuenca;  and  when  'lto  last  accounts  came  away,  was  already  at  Taranconi  within  twelve  leagui:s  of  that"
