text
"APRIL  23.  The  joy,  however,  was  considerably  damped,  by  a  report  that  the  gallant  Capt.  CoettnAtit  fell  in  the  action;  but  this  proved  to  be  a  mistake.  The  Gazette  Extraordinary,  which  will  be  found  in  another  part  of  our  raper,  was  pirblished  at  nine  o'clock.  We  never  remember  an  occasion,  in  which  the  town  was  more  animated,  in  which  the  success  was  Thore  and  had  so  little  to  alloy  it.  WAR  BETWEEN  AUSTRIA  AND  FRANCE.  What  we  had  foreseen,  indeed,  what  we  have  dreaded,  has  at  length  occurred,  and  after  years  of  vacillation,  of  alternate  decision  and  irresolution,  of  menace  on  one  side,  and  an  equivocal  submission  on  the  other,  France  and  Austria  are  again  committed,  and  have  again  resorted  to  the  last  appeal  of  nations.  This  resort,  in  whatever  point  of  view  it  is  to  be  considered,  is  of  a  most  important  nature,  and  may  eventually  lead  to  consequences  which  may  again  entirely  vary  the  face  of  Europe.  The  calamities  of  the  Continent,  and  the  passive  submission  which  resulted  from  them,  had  began  to  give  an  air  of  tranquillity  :  there  were  certainly  murmurs,  and  perhaps  curses,  not  lotul.  but  deep,  but  people  seemed  reconciled  to  their  degradation,•  and  as assumed  sumed assumed  at  least  the  external  appearance  of  a  patient  expec expectation  tation expectation  of  better  times.  Austria  has  at  length  taken  her  resolution,  and  .whatever  there  is  of  the  disaffected  and  turbulent,  must  now  rally  around  her.  The  Austrian  proclamation  is  very  strongly  characterised  with  the  present  actual  disposition  of  Austria,—with  her  hopes  and  her  fears,—with  her  desperate  effort  and  with  her  due  sense  of  its  perilous  nature.  The  Archduke  CIIARLES  is  too  great  a  General  not  to  know  the  peril  to  which  he  puts  his  country—he  too  welt  understands  the  relative  situation  of  France  and.  Austria,  to  have  any  other  hopes,  but  on  the  most  valiant  efforts  of  a  united  nation  and  soldiery,  seconded  by  that  assistance  which  Providence,  in  an  honest  cause,  often  bestows  on  the  weak  when  opposed  to  the  strong.  It  would  be  uncandid  in  the  most  extreme  degree,  to  congratulate  the  British  public  on  an  event  which  at  best  is  perilous  in  the  extreme.  We  have  never  dealt  in  such  general  delusion,  and  we  will  not  now  begin.  Austria  has  our  wishes,  our  most  ardent  hopes;  .  but  our  hopes  are  trembling,  and  our  Wishes  are  blended  with  our  apprehensions.  We  feel  for  Austria,  as,  in  simi similar  lar similar  circumstances,  we  should  feel  for  ourselves.  Our  feel feelings,  ings, feelings,  on  such  an  occasion,  should  not  depress  our  energy— energywe  we energywe  would  do  all  that  we  could,  and  look  to  the  protecting  hand  of  Heaven  to  second  our  efforts.  There  are  one  or  two  circumstances  in  favour  of  Austria.  In  the  first  place,  the  German  Confederacy,  at  present  in  alliance,  indeed  in  actual  incorporation  with  France,  may  -very  naturally  be  presumed  to  have  more  sympathy  for  Austria,  than  for  the  Emperor  NAPOLCON.  This  Confede Confederacy  racy Confederacy  was  very  skilfully  put  together  by  France;  hut  it  was  put  together  at  a  time  and  period  when  Austr:a  was  in  a  different  situation  to  what  she  now  exhibits.  Austria,  powerful  and  ambitious,  the  supreme  power  in  Germany,  was  an  object  of  terror,  and  therefore  of  envy,  to  all  the  other  German  Princes.  They  were  pleased,  therefore,  to  see  her  humbled,  and  in  the  moment  of  the  gratification  of  their  envy  forgot  the  interests  of  their  own  safety.  They  forgot  that  if  Austria,  by  her  superior  relative  power,  trespassed  on.  them  herselt,—if  she  occasionally  assumed  a  tone,  and  perhaps  an  active  power,  which  was  contrary  to  their  privileges,—they  forgot,  we  say,  that  she  was  enabled  by  the  same  power  to  become  their  protector,  that  she  was  their  natural  barrier  against  foreigners,  and  thateven  a  state  of  jealousy  and  domestic  rivalry  with  a  powerful  neighbour,  was  better  than  absolute  subjection  under  •a,  'foreigner.  They  forgot  this  at  the  time,  but  have  doubtless  become  wiser  by  experience.  Austria,  therefore,  may  look  with  expectation  to  this  quarter,  and  it  is  evident  that  she  enter entertains  tains entertains  these  hopes  from  the  very  language.  of  the  Procla Proclamaim  maim Proclamaim  •  .i  Year  lrlnotshnti  ;  never  Clow  for  Foreign  interests  and  Fo Foreign  reign Foreign  nointousisests.  not  on  you  shall  the  curse  alight  to  annihi annihilate  late annihilate  innocent  pations;•  and  over  the  bodies  of  the  slaughtered  de defenders  fenders defenders  of  their  coniitry  to  pave  the  way  fur  a  foreigner  to  the  usurped  throne.  A  happier  lot  awaits  you  ;  the  liberty  of  Lit Litrope  rope Litrope  has  taken  refuge  under  oar  banners.  Your  victories  will  loose  its  fetters,  and  your  brothers  in  Germany,  yet  in  the  ran:.3  of  the  ,  enemy,  'long  for  their  deliverance.  Yoe  are  engaged  in  a  just  cause;  othemise  I  should  not  appear  at  your  This  is  an  evident  allusion  to  the  Gorman  Confederates  in  the  Freich  Armies',  and  we  scarcely  think  that  this  allu allusion  sion allusion  would  !mire  been  made,  unless  there  was  some  reason.  able  hope  that  it  will  he  verified.  The  personal  abilities  of  the  Archduke  Cnantik;may  awaken  a  reasonable  hope,  that  whatever  can  be  done  bf  human  effort,  will  be•done  by  him.  The  Archduke  ttrAnini  is  confessedly  the  most  able  General  'in  hurope,  and  'had'  the  natural  timidity  of  the  Emperor  fn.kscfs,  suffered  him  to  have  his  tieelscope,*he  would  have  precluded  the  necessity  of  signing  the  Peace  of  Presburgli.—lt  must  be  Still  within  the  memory  of  all  our  Readers,  that  the  Archduke  CHARLES  had  advanced  within  three  days  Imaisah.of  Vienna,  when  the  Emperor  FRANCIS  wag  induced.  to  ,s9l,icit  ran  Armistice.—  The.  Emperor  FRANCIS  is  doubtless  possessed  of  some  amiable  qttalities,—he,  is  beloved  by  his  Veeple  forhis  gen gentleness,  tleness, gentleness,  *1,14  still  more  far  the  .  patriotic  aftectionihich  he  has  alma,  exhibited  ~t  owards  his  country  .  —  B  ut  the  Em.  peror  unfortunately  been  placed  in  situations  for  which  he  is  , STYLE=superscript  peculiarly  unfitted.  In  a  stale  of  peace,,  and  lama'  tranquillity,  thero.could  not  have  heen  a  better  Sovereign,  but  theaeasou  of  peril  is  not  suited  to  a  Prince;  whose  olery  quality,  natural  and  acquired,  is  pacific.  SO  We  may  expec  t  ' STYLE=superscript  LP  bear  by,  l STYLE=superscript  tim  next  :arrivais  t  . STYLE=superscript  Ofit  BONAP:ttrri  has  put  himselfat  Ile  bead  of  •  his  arinseis,„  Spain  has  becOme  comparatively  of  little  mement.  Now  is,  the  time  for  the  Spaniards  and  Portuguese  to  work  •  out  their  own  deliverance.  Lathan  avail  themselves  of  it,  or  be  slaves  fur  ever.  -  a  Many  Foreign  Papers  have  arrived  in  the  course  of  the  late  week,  they  are  strictly  however  Dutch,  and  therefore  being  only  a  kind  of  second  hand  intelligetice.  The  open openinc.  inc. openinc.  of  the  Dutch  ports  promises  almost  to  deluge  us  with  these'  journals.  '  The  affairs  of  Spain,  as  they  may  be  collected  from  these  Papers,  are  rather  unfavourable;  it  is  stated  that  General  SEBASTI  ANT  has  defeated  the  army  of  Andalusia,  and  taken  Cindad  Real,  whilst  the  Duke  of  BELLuNo'has  routed  .Ge .General STYLE=superscript  neral .General  CUESTAS,  .  and  in  consequence  obtained  posseision  of  Merida.  These  accounts  arc  given  in  the  Dutch  papers  a  4. STYLE=superscript  extracted  from  The  Morilteur.  In'  contradiction  :0  thee;  statements,  it  has  been  asserted  that  government  have  re.  ceived  intelligence  by  Captain  SCHONBERG,  •  of  the  Loire,  that  three  actions  had  occurred  between  °Marshal  Soeur  and  Rommva,  in  which  the  latter  was  completely  defeated,.  and  in  consequence  compelled  us  to  fail  back  upon  Por Portugal.  tugal. Portugal.  Upon  the  collation  of  the  two  accounts,  it  must  be  ac acknowledged  knowledged acknowledged  that  the  French  intelligence  is  more  circum circumstantial,  stantial, circumstantial,  more  particular.  The  Dutch  .papers,  quoting  from  The.Vonitenr,  specify  circumstances  and  particulars,  whilst  the  alledged  information  by  Captain  SCHONBERG  is  but  a  mere  naked  statement.  The  French  alledged  victories,  moreover,  have  certain  visible  facts.  Ciudid  Real  is  said  to  be  in  possession  of  General  SE.sairriast,  and  Merida,  of  General  CC  ESTA.  The  proceedings  of  Pulioment  in  the  course  'of  the  week  have.  been  unusually  ,animated  and  interestiug.  Tha  second  reading  of  Mr.  Pencev  A  L.'s  Bill,  was  attended  with  a  most  impoitant  Debate.  iu  which  Lord  FoLisToper.  took  that  briiliant.and  leading  station,  to  which  he  is  called  by  the  almost  unanimous  voice  of  the  'Country.—According  to  the  statement  of  his  Lordship,  and  indeed  by  the  con confession  fession confession  of  the  CHANCELLOR  of  the  Excueou  ER  there  seems  to  he  ample  room  fur  a  Reform  in  Parliament..  We  are  I  not  the  advocates  for  innovation  in  turbulent  t  met:,  hut"
