text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  the  other  night.  He  told  me,  if  he  had  been  aware  of  what  Col.  Wardle  had  intended,  and  if  be  had  called  on  him  and  be behaved  haved behaved  handsome,  he  would  have  given  him  many  strong  cases,  but  as  it  was  be  was  determined  to  go  against  hitn.—Q.  Did  Sir  F.  Burdett  ever  apply  for  the  papers  in  her  possession  relative  to  the  subject  ?  A.  Never  once  ;  nor  have  I  had  any  communi communication  cation communication  with  Sir  F.  Burdett  since  May  last,  an  d  t  h  en  i  t  was  merel  accidental.—Q.  Has  she  ever  too:  Mr.  Donovan  that  Sir  F.  Burdett  made  her  an  offer  of  money  for  these  papers  ?  A.  N  o.  —  Q.  Does  she  know  Capt.  Dodd  ?  A.  Yes.--Q.  When  did  she  eft  him  last?  A.  I  cannot  recollect.  Q.  Did  he  by  an  y  mean  , STYLE=superscript  .  demand  or  ask  the  papers  relative  to  this  business?  A.  Never  ;  we  have  never  talked  about  it.--Q.  Did  she  ever  say  so  to  Mr.  Donovan  ?  Never.—Q.  Does  she  know  Col.  111`  Mahon  ?  Yes.  —Q.  Did  she  ever  write  an  anonynious  letter  to  the  rrince  of  Vales  ?  A.  To  shew  Col.  M`Mahon  in  his  proper  colours,  I  will  produce  his  notes  to  me  here  to-morrow  evening.  —Q.  Repeated.  A.  I  wrote  a  few  lines  stating,  theta  person  w  is  hed  to  see  hisßoval  Highness,  and,  in  consequewe  of  that,  Col.  M‘Mahon  visited  me.  Q.  Did  she  sign  ber  own  oanve  or  any  other  lo  these  lilies  i  A.  It  was  without  any  name.  Culouel  M  4 STYLE=superscript  :-'.ation  came  to  the  address.  He  asked  the  servant  who  opened  the  door  whose  house  it  was,  who  replied,  Mrs.  Farquhar's,  as  it  was  my  mo mother's.  ther's. mother's.  He  came  up  stairs,  and  addressed  me  by  the  name  a  Farquhar,  and  shortly  after  discovering  that  I  was  Mrs.  Clarke  he  delivered  a  very  polite  message  from  the  Prince,  expressive  of  his  great  respect  for  me  (a  lough  );  that  he  was  sorry  for  the  ersanner  in  which  I  had  been  treated,  and  that  Nl`Mahon  would  carry  any  message  for  me  to  the  Dike  of  York  to  make  peace.  That  he  was  going  to  Brigitte°  next  day,  and  could  not  and  it  was  a  delicate  matter  for  him  to  interfere  with  his  brov!er.  After  this  I  had  several  notes  from  Colonel  MiMahon,  and  had  some  interviews  with  him.  The  witness  here  detailed  the  natu  re  of  Colonel  111‘Mahon's  conduct,  whom  she  described  as  sympa sympathizing  thizing sympathizing  in  her  complaints  ;  endeavouring  to  effect  her  reconcili reconciliation  ation reconciliation  with  the  Commander  in  Chief;  saying,  that  when  the  Duke  expressed  an  opinion  that  she  was  exasperated  against  him,  he  had  told  his  Royal  Highness  that  on  the  contrary  she  was  mild  towards  bite,  and  laid  all  the  blame  upon  Mr.  Adam:  upon  which  his  Royal  Highness  observed,  she  is  very  right,  and  must  look  into  her  affairs.  This  was  the  substance  of  his  last  Dote.—Q.  Did  witness  represent  herself  to  any  person,  in  Novem November  ber November  last,  as  having  power  to  procure  commissions,  or  other  of offices?  fices? offices?  A.  No;  but  I  recommended  some  who  wanted  situations  to  a  person.—Q.  Who  was  that  person  ?  A.  I  would  mention  his  name,  but  intend  to  have  him  here.---Q.  Name  him  ?  A.  I  beg  to  be  excused.—Q.  Name  him  ?  (Name  l  Name  I  from  the  whole  House.)  A.  If  I  answer  the  question  it  will  be  impossible  to  produce  him  here;  he  will  run  oiTt  of  the  way,  (Cries  of  Name!  Name!)  Mr.  Maltby.—Q.  Where  does  he  live?  A.  Fishmimgers'  Hall.—Q.  Has  she  bad  any  communication  witti  any  person  but  Mr.  Maltby,  relative  to  the  power  of  procuring  Commissions  and  Official  Situations?  A.  No;  except  that  1  have  just  spoken  to.—Q.  What  situations  did  she  endeavour  to  procure  through  Maltby,  and  for  whim  ?  A.  I  have  letters  at  home  will  shew,  which  I.  will  produce.  Mrs.  Clake  (the  witness)  here  prevaricating,  she  was  duly  admonished  by  the  Chairman  of  the  Committee;  when,  after  owing  to  her  knowledge  of  Mr.  Dawson,  she  confessed  though  with  apparent  reluctance,  the  name  of  Lodowick  or  [Auto  w  ick.  Q.  Has  he  any  other  name?  A.  I  don't  know.  Who  Is  be?  A.  A  Gentleman,  I  believe.  He  lives  in  Essex.---Q.  same  the  friends  who  recommended  Ludowick  to  you  ?  A.  I  cannot  tell  exactly;  Maltby  will  \Theo  he  is  before  the  tioute.  4 STYLE=superscript  Q.  Is  Ludowick  the  person  you  meant,  who  had  been  hardly  used,  and  suffered  much  already,  whose  name  you  was  unwilling  to  tell,  In  what  has  he  suffered  ?A.  In  lodging  money,  in  being  kept  out  of  appointments,  and  in  meeting  with  disappointments  from  day  to  day.  After  Maltby  is  examined,  Ivt  iii  trention  a  General  Officer's  name,  which  he  (Maltby)  made  free  with.-.  Q.  What  are  the  disappointments  now  alluded  to?  A.  That  of  being  made  Assistant  Commissary.---Q.  How  much  money  is  lodged  ?  A.  From  8001.  to  10D0/.---Who  was  the  General  Officer  whose  name  Maltby  made  tve  of?  A.  Sir  A.  Wellesloy---(A  laugh.)  One  of  the  excuses  ftir  not  getting  the  situation  wog,  that  he  was  deeply  engaged  in  the  investigation  at  Chelsea..-.Q.  What  was  the  appointment  delayed  by  Sir  A.  Wellesley  ?  A.  -believe  that  of  Commissary.  She  never  told  Donovan  that  she  had  any  power  whatever  with  the  Duke  of  Portknd—never  said  to  him  that  if  the  Duke  of  York  knew  of  her  rece►ving  maney,  it  would  be  her  ruin.—  Laughedat  the  idea  of  Mr.  War4le's  her  he  l►ad  watched  105  her  into  Portland  House,  and  said  it  was  more  likely  Mrs.Ginbs.  Nevt  r  held  out.  Duke  of  Portland  or  Lord  Chancellor,  as  per persons  sons persons  through  whom  she  procured  appointments.  Knew  Dawson,  he  is  a  Piano  forte  Maker,  and  the  situation  he  wanted  was  at  Savanna  Le  Mar,  and  believed  from  his  own  report,  that  he  had  deposited  money  for  it  within  the  last  fortnight.  Standen  had  pocketed  half  what  was  paid  by  Tonyn  for  tits  Majority,  being  d  or  900%  Mr.  WARDLE  thon  examined  by  the  CHANCELLOR  Of  the  Excm  Exit/nit  to  the  following  effect.  Q.  Did  Mr.  Wardle  ever  repro:kelt  the  last  witness  with  going  to  the  Duke  of  Portlam!  A.  I  mid  her  that  I  nad  heard  she  had  gone  to  his  Grace,  and  that  I  WO  very  much  surprised  at  lt.—Q.  Who  told  Mr.  Wardle  that  Mrs.  Clarke  had  heeu  with  the  Duke  ?  A.  I  understood  it  at  the  office  in  the  city  which  I  have  before  mentioned.  COLONEL  GORDON  EXAMINED,  CHANCELLOR  OF  THE  EXCHEQUER..---11ftS  Colonel  Gordon  brought  with  the  offieial  documents  respecting  the  appoint appointment  ment appointment  of  'Major  Tonyu  ?  A.  Ve3---  Q.  Will  he  have  the  good goodness  ness goodness  to  state  in  what  they  cunsist  T  A.  First  reerunmendation  of  Major  Tonyn  which  I  cat.  anti  is  dlted  i7th  Julie,  1803,  from  his  rather  General  Tunvn,  cetunel  of  tar  481  ii  regiment.  (Colonel  Gordon  read  this  rioevu:nt.  in  which  General  l'on‘n  recom recomtrending  trending recomtrending  both  his  sons  t  , STYLE=superscript  )  the  !attire  of  the  Duke  of  York).  To  this  tneM;;rial  t•le  following  answer  vas  returned  :  (Colonel  Gordon  re;id  the  answer.  dated  28th  June,  IS(t3,  signed  Fre Frederick,  derick, Frederick,  awl  exorcising  this  Royal  Highness's  readiness  to  concur  in  tit!  bt.  totes  of  General  Tunyn  Oh  respect  to  the  promotion,  of  h  s  sons).  The  next  docament  on  the  subject  -is  a  memorial  from  Capt.  Tonyn  to  C:e  Commander  in  Chief,  stating,  that  ho  had  been  ‘24.  sears  an  officer,  of  which  he  had  been  in  active  ser service  vice service  14  sears  with  the  41st  reg.  and  requesting  to  be  promoted  to  a  Nlajurity.  This  document  has  no  date,  but  it  was  received  in  March,  1804.  The  answer  was  dated  the  1511;  of  March,  1804.  (Cul.  Gordon  read  the  answer,  which  stated,  that  Major  Toilyn's  name  had  been  noted  for  promot  too,  and  that  his  Royal  llighues  would  Hot  forget  him  when  a  favourable  opportunity  occurred.)  These  are  all  the  official  documents  that  1  have  found  with  re respect  spect respect  to  Major  Tonyn.  In  August  1804,  a  large  augmentation  of  the  army  took  place,  to  the  amount  of  50  additional  battalions.  In  the  fornation  of  these,  I  received  the  orders  of  the  Caen Caeninand;r  inand;r Caeninand;r  in STYLE=superscript  Chief  to  prepare  a  list  of  the  senior  officers  of  the  army  generally,  of  each  rank,  and  to  take  the  names  from  the  book  of  recommenOations  where  they  had  been  entered.  1  did  so,  and  in  that  list  with  Capt.  Tonyn  appeared  53  Officers  to  be  appointed  to  Majorities;  I  L  Majors.  removed  from  other  regi.  'limits  or  from  half-pay;  13  Brevet-Majors  ;  and  29  Captains;  of  the  last,  7  were  of  the  year  1794,  9  of  the  year  1795  (ainong  whom  was  Capt.  Tenyol,  5  of  the  year  1798,  7  of  the  year  1797,  and  one  of  the  year  1799.  Q.  By  Mr.  YORKE—Can  Colonel  Gordon  state  what  is  the  average  of  the  purchase  money  in  each  year?  A.  The  average  of  the  last  three  years  considerably  exceeds  400,000/.  a  year.—  Q.  Can  Colonel  Gordon  account  for  the  origin  of  irchases  and  pu,  -  sales  of  cotnroissiow,  and  will  he  state  the  effect  that  in  his  opt-  nion  they  have  on•the  army  ?  A.  The  origin  was  as  follows  :  in  every  other  service  in  Europe  the  person  at  the  head  of  the  army  has  the  power  of  granting  pensions,  according  to  service.  No  such  power  is  enjoyed  by  the  Commander  in  Chief  here.  When  the  colonel  of  a  regiment  is  rendered,  by  age  or  incapable  of  accompanying  his  regiment  into  service.  His  Ma Majesty  jesty Majesty  cannot  increase  the  establishment  of  the  regiment,  by  mak making  ing making  another  colonel  ;  it  would  he  unjust  to  put  the  old  or  wounded  officer  on  half-pay,  or  deprive  him  of  his  commission.  No  alternative  remains,  but  allow  him  to  retire  on  a  compensa•  tion.  What  that  compensation  should  be  was  *maned  by  Board  of  General  Officers  in  1765.  They  awarded  certain  sums  to  be  received  by  officers  thus  retiring  from  service;  Kh  ios  sums  are  called  the  regulation  prices  of  commissions.  As  to  tht  bearing  of  this  system  on  the  army,  that  is  very  extensive.  Q.  Does  Col.  Gordon  recollect  the  Commander  in  Chief  ever  having  taken  out  of  his  pocket,  a  list  of  officers,  and  given  it  is  him  with  an  intimation  that  they  must  be  promoted  out  of  the  regular  course  ?  A.  I  never  recollect  such  an  instance.  I  mast  take  this  opportouity  to  say  that  I  never  recollect  a  solitary  ins instance  tance instance  in  which  the  Commander  in  Chief  hat-  put  SRC!'  a  paper  into  my  hands.  All  recommendations  have  proceeded  through  their  proper  channel,  without  asitagleexception.  Colonel  Gordon  was  then  ordered  to  withdraw.  On  the  motion  of  the  CHANCELLOR  of  the  Eeenigivse,  the  House  was  resumed,  the  Gitelman  rephrtedprogrev.,  aid  00-  ti4ineJ  leave  to  sit  -again  on  Itioutlay.—Attjouraesi.•-  *  •"
