text
"..I►ir  *ittiokAti  tit,GistEli.  Deis  There  - STYLE=superscript  is  neither  piety  or  anj  gladness,  of  any  species,  in  the  conotenance  of  Lord  Nelson  ;  it  does  not  seem  to  he  even  endeavouring,  to  express  any  emphatic  feeliie;  ;  for  is  it  even  the  visage  of  an  expiring  mith.  It  is  a  blue  Rudy  from  a  disfigured  cast  or  model.  The  young  wounded  officer  has  a  ghastly,  toeneaning  countenance  ;  and  as  his  eves  are  directed  towards  the  spectator,  he  disturbs  the  harmony  of  the,  whole  piece.  The  dyiug  marine  seems  to  be  thrown  in  t')  MI  up  a  Corner  :  he  might  have  been  rendered  144culiarly  interesting.  The  assistant  surgcoi(  has  a  broad  laugh  nit  his  visage.  The  great  figure  of  a  seaman  who  smnds  upright  with  his  back  towards  the  spectator,  breaks  the  slide:  group  ;  and  the  great  dispro disproportion  portion disproportion  of  his  figure,  and  the  uncouth  attitude  in  which  he  stands,  destroysail  pretentious  to  that  fiarmony,  which  in  such  assemblage  (night  particularly  to  have  beea  preserved:  The  painter  does  not  appear  to  have  known  what  to  do  with  the  lights  of  his  various  lamps.  One  of  them  looks  like  a  flame  without  light.  Upon  the  whole  I  cannot  help  pronouncing  this  picture  to  be  one  of  the  poorest  with  respect  to  genius  that  ever  1  beheld.  Its  whole  merit  consists  in  some  good  portrait  drawing.  ?t  has  neither  perspective,  composition  or  taste.  It  excites  our  commiseration  less  than  any  painting  could  be  supposed  to  do  on  the  same  subject  ;  and  I  will  venture  to  aiscrt  that  ninny  would  not  even  guess  that  the  scene  before  them,  attempted  to  display  the  dying  moments  of  Nelson  !  Drox.  (To  be  continued.)  F./iilliro  S  14.1  31.  i  UCH',  1809.  Mantles  and  coats  of  Green  Vignnia,  or  Merino  cloth,  of  vad  rious  shades;  from  tls  e  sober  hue  of  the  Spanish  fl  y  to  the  more  lively  pea-green;  have  succeeded  to  the  purple,  which  thouglt  a  colour  most  pleasing  in  itself  is  now  become  too  general  to  find  a  place  in  a  select  wardrobe.  Scarlet  cloaks  are  no  longer  seen  on  genteel  women,  except  is  wraps  for  the  Theatres;  the  satia satiated  ted satiated  eyti  turns  overpowered  by  their  universal  glare;  to  rest  on  more  chaste  and  refreshing  shades.  Mantles  and  pelisses  are  now  considered  more  elegant  when  trimmed  with  gold  or  silver  l:tee,  or  binding;  or  wills  velvet,  bound,  or  laid'  flat,  and  w  hieh  is  sometimes  finished  at  its  terminations  With  a  narrow  gold  edging,  or  flat  braid.  Some  are  decorated  with  •borders  of  co:mired  chen  i  lle,  but  these  can  only  consistently  belong  to  the  •  carriage  costume.  Bonnets  continue  to  he  formed  of  tlAc  same  materials  as  the  coat  or  Mantle,  and  trimmed  to  correspend.  The  Patriotic  helmet,  and  the  College  bonnet  each  worn  with  short  white  lace  veils,  are  amidst  the  most  novel  and  attractive  articles  of  this  kind.  The  purple  and  the  greets  beaver  hat,  somewhat  of  the  Spanish  fonts,  turned  op  with  a  loop  and  n•ro'rts  tassel  of  gold,  falling  towards  the  left  eye-brow,  and  ornamented  with  a  •  small  Persian  plume  of  the  same  colour,  is  making  its  appear.  ante,  and  as  a  carriage  decoration  possesses  much  becoming  attraction.  The  robe  a-  nido,  formed  of  Tyrian  bright  velvet,  or  safg safgnet,  net, safgnet,  ranks  high  in  fashionable  splendour.  It  is  trimmed  with  gold  lace,  and  n  Roman  girdle  of  gold  tissue,  confined  its  front  with  a  rich  emlfossed  clasp,  onraments  the  bottom  of  waste.  The  hair  is  secured  with  a  caul,  or  gold  net  behind,  end  orna ornamented  mented ornamented  with  a  bandeau  or  diadem  in  front.  The  Carthage  cy cymar  mar cymar  or  fancy  scarf,  formed  of  Paris  net,  with  gold  emb:essed  border  and  stars,  shades  the  Shoulders,  which  this  splendid  costume  w  ould  otherwise  too  much  expose  ;  but  we  remark  that  sometimes  in  full  dress  tke  robes  are  made  to  sit  high  in  the  neck,  like  morning  habits,  but  more  ornamented  about  the  throat  and  bosom  :  we  cannot,  however,  in  any  way  subscribe  to  a  fashion  which  Ovels  a  keit  distinction.  Combs  of  steel  rank  amidst  other  fashionable  ornaments  for  the  hair.  Shoes  are  no'w  vety  lunch  trimmed,  and  are  more  showy  than  we  have  observed  them  for  some  sears.  Half-boots  of  cloth,  the  colour  of  the  pelisse  or  mantle,  are  also  much  in  request.  The  most  genteel  colours  are  Saragossa  brown,  various  shades  or  green,  amber,  and  pale  geranium;  the  most  general,  purple  and  scarlet.  Friday,  at  twenty  minutes  i►.a.'t  two,  the  St,  Doming),  Ott  largest  74  in  the  British  Navy,  was  launehed  at  the  Mors  Dock-yard,  Woolwich.  The  fineness  of  the  weather  drew  iu  immense  concourse  of  people  to  witness  the  scene,  and  the  road  from  Greenwich  to..Woolwieh  was  entirely  bliicked  up  with  carriage;  ;  Many  of  wittch  were  not  atilt  19  reach  the  DAV  yard  until  some  hears  after  the  launch..  P14_TB00014 ~~'"
