text
"'  SUNDAY,  FEBRUARY  12,  1809,  PRICE  M.  perils  they  subdued  ;  we  will  repeat  to  them  what  Britons  for formerly  merly formerly  achieved,  and  bow  they,  by  euarage  and  persevelaoces  triumphed  over  difficulties  wore  trying  and  periloos  thau  those  we  are  e  posed  to.  These  are  the  sentituents  fit  to  be  ex  preasect  to  me  hire  annals  CORtaio  so  many  splendid  examples  of  what  o  .  lury  and  love  of  freedom  rare  capable  of  iuspi  ring  and  perfor  ag  ;  whose  country  his  been  invariably  cosisidered  as  the  natural  sojourn  of  morel  and  politic  al  independence,  and  whose  fathers  have  always  appeared  in  the  conspicuous  characis  ter  of  avengers  and  deliverers  of  outraged  and  oppressed  noticing.  But  if  their  feelings  are  become  so  torpid  as  to  be  insensible  to  the  call  of  honour  and  freedom,  an  appeal  to  their  WES  oleos  and  avarice  is  unasiailin,  because  a  people,  animated  only  *with  such  sentiments,  are  Incapable  and  unworthy  of  bcitig  saved.  We  have  thus  thought  proper  to  preface  the  follow  log  obser observatious,  vatious, observatious,  on  the  conduct  we  ought  to  pursue  relative  to  Sp.  A...—  Heaven  knows,  it  is  mortifying  enough  to  be  obliged  to  employ  so  many  arguments  in  support  of  tneasures,  wliose  urgency  we  consider  as  self-evident;  but  the  alarming  iudiffereece  which  Las  .  succeeded,  within  a  few  weeks,  to  the  Alaimo  and  zeal  previously  manifested  by  the  public,  is  sudicient  to  justify  any  degree  of  apprehension  we  may  feel  in  recommending  the  necessity  of  energetic  memurea  in  support  of  the  Spaniards,  in  support  of  Europe,  in  support  of  ourselves.  A  cirouinstance,  which  in increases  creases increases  our  anxiety,  is  the  fatal  opinion  which  begins  to  grtia  ground,  that  even  the  full  display  of  our  streugth,  directed  by  i  the  most  consummate  wisdom,  is  now  insuflicieut  to  secure  e.en  a  single  village  of  the  Continent  the  enjoyment  df  inclependeore.  How  variable  has  the  public  opinion  been  on  the  :aloe  .i.!  , STYLE=superscript  r•  t  in  the  sport  space  of  six  mouths  ;  but  we  kousa  the  revuliiag  cause  of  this  inconsistency  and  vacillation-  .it  lies  in  the  iet)-  m4eagenient,  weakness,  awl  ignorauce,  of  the  individuals  v.  iso  had  the  inauicezneco  of  ou  r  eVactrot:.  We  o.•ul.ladvise,  how however,  ever, however,  the  public  nut  to  abaudou  a  good  c0a,...,  too  to  zrhie..don  themselves,  and  the  future  interests  of  their  chil.lren,  in  coat-  , STYLE=superscript  quence  of  the  incompetency  of  this,  ur  preceding;  admioistrat  ions.  A  mass  of  talents,  virtue,  and  energy,  are  surely  to  Le  fi..ii.d  among  sixteen  millions  of  iallohitatits,  adequate  to  the  caeca.  Lion  of  more  arduous  projects  than  we  are  called  upon  to  accom accomplish  plish accomplish  ;  and  the  British  character  Las  never  been  thought  defi deficient  cient deficient  iu  those  qualities,  which  enable  a  people  to  act  a  dl.fieult  or  even  proinioeut  part.  The  utility  of  al-sisting  efficaciously  the  Spaniards,  is  so  ob obvious,  vious, obvious,  and  has  been  so  frequeatly  urged,  that  it  i.;  su  l  .efl.i.or.,  to  make  any  new  observations  on  that  subject.  But  doubts,  it  ap appears,  pears, appears,  have  arisen  as  to  the  practicat.ility  of  doing  it.  If  disc  gust  at  reiterated  disappointments,  al  -  :he  improvident  Dud  in inadequate  adequate inadequate  use  which  has  been  made  of  the  national  resources,  have  caused  this  unwarrantable  despondency  in  the  public  ;  we  hope  their  good  sense  and  :.rinness  will  finally  triumph  over  these  obstacles,  and  counteract  the  delusive  soggestions  of  iudolence.  A  little  reflection,  a  recurrence  to  forcer  event:,  some  know.  ledge  of  the  springs  of  huiran  action,  and  an  attentiea  to  the  effects  of  popular  feeling,  wou'd  point  out  the  a1,?;41,t  tu.ttro  mountable  difficulties  BuNA.I  - STYLE=superscript  AItTE  has  to  encoulitcr,  before  be  obtains  undisputed  poo  , STYLE=superscript  e:ssiou  of  the  !et:bifida.  Vague  and  undigested  theories  are  not  sufficient  to  overtlirost  the  exves  rience  of  ages  ;  and  nothing  is  more  absurd  and  errotieous  than  the  idea  that  proinises  and  a  ambiance  of  i  nioie•afto  are  a  we  to  reconcile  a  people  to  the  yoke  of  a  cotiqu,”Or.  Generations  'bust  pass  away,  and  every  vestige  of  the  injustice  he  effaced.,  before  a  cordial  and  voluntary  iubmission  can  be  t  x  protest.  To  she*  the  - STYLE=superscript  trutb  of  Usti  racsaris  Its  lb  more  übviap  light,  ant  ma"
