text
"MR.  SHERIDAN.  The  disgraceful  subject  of  our  reverses  during  the  Late  campaign  was  discussed  in  the  House  of  Commons  last  night.  Between  eleven  and  twelve  o'clock,  the  fire,  which  was'consuming,  that  magnificent  temple  of  the  mimic  art,  Drury  Lane  Theatre,  had  reflected  so  strong  a  blaze  of  light  into  the  inside  of  the  House,  that  a  very  marked  agitation  was  visili!e  among  the  members  ;  and  the  Debate  Was  frequently'  interrupted.  At  the  conclusion  of  Mr.  Canning's  eli2  .  iient  and  patriotic  speech,  a  motion  was  made  to  adjourn  the  House,  as  a  marls  of  the  sympathy  and  interest  sr  hich  the  Members  felt  for  the  loss  sustained  by  Mr.  SuFainAs,  But  that  gentleman,  with  a  magnanimity  so  conspicuous  in  almost  all  his  public  actions,  had  re remained  mained remained  firm  and  immoveable  at  his  post,  though  his  whole  fortune  was  vested  in  the  theatre.  He  declared  to  the  House,  in  a  lo'w  tone  of  voice,  not  so  much  occasioned  by  the  great  loss  he  had  sustained,  but  from  the  strong  affect  this  general  sympathy  eel's:A  him,  that  however  great  the  sulThrings  of  the  individual  may  be,  he  did  not  consider  them  of  a  nature  to  ealbarrass  their  proceedings  on  so  great  a  national  question.  That  illustrious  Senator  lees  been  deprived  by  this  dread dreadful  ful dreadful  calamity  of  the  whole  of  his  property  ;  and  in  quitting  the  House  of  Commons,  which  he  attended  in  the  exercise  of  his  parliamentary  functions,  and  which  he  had  so  often  enraptured  by  his  eloqiierAce,  astenished  by  the  versatility  of  his  talents,  enlivened  by  Ins  wit,  and  ornamented  by  his  genius,—on  quitting  it  he  was  literally  a  beggar.  But  the  public  and.t  he  government  cannot  disregard  the  great  and  important  sers  ices  he  •  has  rendered.  His  conduct  during  the  mutiny  of  the  Nom,  when  the  fortunes  of  the  Empire  were  suspended  by  a  single  hair,  have  entitled  him  to  the  eternal  gratitude  of  the  country.  During  the  whole  tenor  of  his,_public  life,  he  has  displayed  a  disinterestedness,  an  ardent  love  of  freedom,  an  attachment  to  the  constitution.  an  abborronco  of  arbitrary  and  selfish  policy,  a  firmness  of"
