text
"-APRIL  16.  otfu•ers  of  Chelsea  Hospital  had  omit  remonstrated  against  the  project,  that  the  physician  and  surgeon  had  nut  declared  their  disapprobation  of  the  plan.  The  Hon.  Baronet  concluded  w  ith  oh ohurviug,  urviug, ohurviug,  that  he  conceived  the  matter  a  mere  job,  and  therefore  he  wished  for  the  production  of  the  proper  documents  to  enable  the  Hope  to  form  a  judgment  upon  the  subject,  If  his  motion  was  acceded  to,  he  should  probably  hereafter  feel  it  his  duty  to  follow  it  ttpby  another,  calling  evidence  to  the  Bar  of  the  House  to  skew  the  impropriety  of  the  plan  that  was  now  in  executioo.  lie  then  waved,  that  there  be  laid  before  the  House  a  copy  of  the  %Warrant,  dated  the  11th  of  March,  1809,  from  the  Treasury  to  the  Survey  or  General  of  the  Crown  Lands,  directing  him  to  prepare  the  lease  of  certain  lands  at  Chelsea,  The  Cif  N  CELL°  ft  of  the  Excnri4rEll  said,  that  there  was  pe►thing  whatever  in  the  transaction  'which  he  had  the  slightest  ev  ish  should  be  concealed.  (  Hear,  hear  !  )  He  conl.l  not,  how however,  ever, however,  help  saying,  that  the  lion.  Baronet  viewed  every  act  of  the  Government  of  the  country  w  ith  so  jealous  and  so  jaandieed  an  eye  (  Loud  cries  u/'  Hear,  hear  !  )  th:►t  every  thing  his  Alts;est''s  .I%linisters  did,  was  construed  by  him  into  a  job.  Ile  con,  sidered  the  motion  merely  as  one  calculated  to  catch  a  little  present  popularity,  by  complaining  of  a  grievance  which  bad  no  existence.  Ministers,  before  they  sanctioned  the  grant  to  Cal.  Gordon,  had  matie  proper  Idquiries  on  the  subject.  After  vindicating  the  conduct  of  the  Lords  Commissioners  of  the  Trea Treasury  sury Treasury  at,soine  length,  the  Right  lion.  Gentleman  concluded  with  observing,  that  lie  should  make  no  objection  to  the  motion  at  pre preopt  opt preopt  before  the  House  ;  but  if  the  lion,  Baronet  should  make.  any  motion  for  persons  being  called  to  the  Bar  to  give  their  opinions  as  to  the  correctness  of  the  judgment  or  the  CrQw  t!  Surveyor,  he  should  decidedly  oWeet  to  it.  Sir.  F.  Bea  nr:er  replied  at  some  length  to  the  observation  of  the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer,  and  some  of  the  preceding  Speakers.  He  said,  he  viewed  his  Majesty's  Ministers  with  no  jaundiced  eye;  he  respected  them  as  much  as  any  other  Mini Ministers  sters Ministers  ;  but  he  was  ready  to  acknowledge  that  he  viewed  their  conduct  with  a  jealous  eye.—Nothing  lint  his  duty  led  him  to  notice  the  subject,  nod  when  the  documents  were  laid  'upon  the  table,  he  should  probably  feel  it  further  his  duty  to  call  Gen Gentlemen  tlemen Gentlemen  to  the  bar,  in  order  that  the  House  might  form  an  opi opinion  nion opinion  on  the  sul►jec•t  from  the  examination  of  witnesses.  The  Motion  was  agreed  to,  and  the  papers  ordered  accord•"
