text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  _  .  .  it  might  be  sa.—Q.  Do  you  recollect  to  have  sent  any  message  to  Tonyn  by  Bandon  ?  A.  It  is  so  long  ago,  that  I  can't  !)er !)erfectly  fectly !)erfectly  recollect.--4  do  not  think  I  did  send  any  letier,  but  I  will  net  speik  positively--Q.  As  you  say  you  wery  .o  cautious  in  putting  any  papers  out  of  your  hands,  do  you  recollect  sentUng  a  paper  to  Caplan)  Tonyn  by  the  hands  of  San Sandon  don Sandon  ?  A.  If  you  mean  to  insinuate  it  wa;  the  Duke  of  York's  letter,  I  never  did.—Q.  Are  you  certain  you  never  put  atm  paper  into  Sandon's  hands,  purporting  to  he  a  letter  from  the  Duke  of  York  ?  A.  lam  certain  of  it,  except  lately,  and  once  or  a'former  oetasion  to  Mr.  Manners.---Q.  Did  you  ever  receive  any  note  from  the  'Duke  on  the  subject  of  Capt.  Tonyn's  promo promotion  tion promotion  ?  A.  I  saw  his  Royal  Highness  every  day  ;  there  was  no  occasion  for  notes  passing  between  us  except  when  he  was  iu  the  country.  I  did  nut  receive  any  nob;  on  that  sithject  from  the  Duke.--Q.  You  stated  that  you  had  given  letters  to  Mr.  Manners,  were  these  in  the  hand-writing  of  the  Duke?  A.  'Phey  were---Q.  In  a  former  answer,  you  spoke  as  to  a  supposed  insinuation  that  the  paper  was  a  letter  !rani  the  Duke  of  York  ?  how  came  it  to  occur  to  you  that  sm  . STYLE=superscript  y  each  thing  should  have  •  been  insinuated  as  laving  been  given  by  .  you  to  Captain  Stmdon  ?  A.  I  don't  think  It  ts,  I  am  almost  sure  It  is  not  ;  perhaps  be  may  have  written  such  a  letter  himself-42.  What  interest  had  Sandon  in  the  w wren  ren wren  of  thisaegodatioti  with  Captain  Tonyn.  I  mean  pecuniary  peat,  per  centage,  or  any  thing  of  that  kind  ?  A.  1  believe  he  was  to  have  some  pecatatary  advantage,  though  1  don't  know  what  it  was.  Mr.  Brit);  who  keeps  Slalghter's  Coffee-house,  was  then  called  in  ;  Upon  Which  Mrs.  Clarke  begr,ed  to  be  permitted  to  withdraw,  asking  if  the  Committee  couli  examine  two  witnesses  at  the  same  time.  This  request  was  not,  however,  complied  with,  and  the  CilANcst.t.on.of  the  Elcasquen  rose  to  ask,  Dots  Mr.  Reid  - STYLE=superscript  know  the  witness  at  the  bar  Q.  Did  she  come  •  to  Your  house  under  the  name  of  nowler  ?  A.  Yes.—(Mrs.  Clarke,  I  never  passed  myself  under  that  name,  whatever  this  man  might  think  prorr  to  call  Did  you  address  her  asi‘lrs.  Dowler?  A.  I  always  _spoke  of  her  as  Mrs.  Dowler.  Q.  Did  she  answer  to  that  address  ?  A.  I  understood  so.  By  mr.  BARING.—Q.  Did  you  believe  her  to  be  married  to  7.%tr.  Dowler?  A.  I  never  doubted  it.—Q.  Would  you  not  have  heen  afraid  of  admitting  her  if  you  thought  she  was  not  Mrs.  Dow.ler  ?  A.  Good  God  !  I  should  not  have  thought  of  any  thing  of  the  kind.—Q.  By  whom  was  she  called  Mrs.  Dowler?  A.  Every  person  that  asked  for  her  called  her  By  whom  did  you  understand  her  to  be  so  ?  A.  By  Mr.  Dowler  himself  calling  her  so.  Mr.  BERESVORD  wished  to  put  a  few  questions  to  an  Ho Hopourable  pourable Hopourable  Member  (Mr.  Wardle).---Q.  Tins  the  Honourable  Gentleman  laid  - STYLE=superscript  upon  the  table  of  the  Committee  all  the  Corres Correspondence  pondence Correspondence  that  passed  between  him  and  Mrs.  Clarke  ?  A.  Cer Certainly  tainly Certainly  not-..Q.  Have  you  any  objection  to  produce  it  ?  A.  As Assuredly  suredly Assuredly  I  have—Q.  Has  the  Honourable  Gentleman  any  objec objection  tion objection  to  lay  all  the  papers  before  the  Committee  w  bich  he  took  from  Mrs.  Clarke  ?  A  .  They  are  all  on  the  table  already.  Some  time  after  the  Serjeant  returned  with  Captain  H.  Sandon,  who  was  immediately  called  to  the  Bar,  and  produced  several  papers.  Interrogated  by  the  CrlANcrtmsa  of  the  EXCIXEQUER.---  Q..  Have  you  found  the  paper  ?  A.  I  have.---Q.  W  here  did  the  witness  find  it  ?  A.  In  my  bureau.--Q.  What  are  the  other  papers  ?  A.  Two  letters,  which  . STYLE=superscript  1  had  from  Mrs.  Clark..  Ilere  the  witness  was  ordered  to  look  at  one  of  the  letters—Q.  Did  that  paper  come  from  Mrs.  Clarke.?  A.  Yes—Q..  Did  you  take  it  from  her  hands  ?-.A.  I  did..  The  letter  was  then  read  at  the  table:  It  was  addressed  to  G.  Farquhar,  and  stated  as  'follows  I  have  just  received  your  note,  and  God  bless  KftS.  CIA  RXE  EXAM  iNcu.  121  A  letter  was  put  into  her  hands.  Questioned  by  the  C  AN..  CEl.l.ort  of  Ole  Emelt  1:u1:11.---Q.  Do  you  recollect  having  wen  that  letter  before  ?  Ido  not  recollect  having  seen  it.  Q.  Joe:  the  witness  recollect  having  seen  a  letter  to  Captain  Stan Standen  den Standen  on  the  st:!ject  or  Major  Tonyn's  promotion?  A.  No,  Ido  not  recollect  gis  ing  a  letter,  'sot  I  think  I.  must  have  made  some  comonanieation  on  that  subject—Q.  Does  the  witness  always  write  the  same  hood  ?  A.  1  can't  really  say  how  l  write.  I  generally  write  in  a  hurry.  (Two  bills  produced.)  Q.  Did  you  write  these  bills  ?  One  of  them  was  written  by  my  mo.  titer  ;  I  guided  her  hand.  Q.  Witness  then  means  to  'ay  her  mother  held  the  pen  when  she  wrote  one  of  the  bills  ?  A.  Yea.,  that  was  the  general  way  :  1  had  authority  to  draw  hills  this  way  in  my  mother's  mate.  Q.  Did  witness  write  those  bills  produced  ?  A.  I  wrote  one,  but  cannot  say  which.  If  'I  had  thought  I  had  been  doing  wrong,  I  should  have  burnt  the  hills---Q.  Did  Mrs.  Clarke  ever  imitate  the  hand-writing  of  any  person  ?  A.  I  never  made  a  good  imitation  ;  l  have  en endeavoured,  deavoured, endeavoured,  among  friends,  to  imitate  writing.  I  have  at  times  tried  to  write  like  the  Duke  of  York---Q.  In  point  of  fact,  when  you  did  attempt  to  imitate,  did  you  succeed  ?  A.  I  do  not  know,  the  Duke  of  York  fancied  that  his  writing  was  like  it.  The  only  question  i,  whether  I  did  imitate  the  Duke's  hand,  and  I  am  not  certain  that  I  did  not---Q.  Did  you  ever  imitate  any  other  person's  hand  in  the  presence  Of  wer  ?  A.  I  never  did.  Here  the  letter  addressed  to  G.  Farquhar  was  shewn  the  witness.  Q.  Do  you  know  in  whosc  band-writing  that  letter  is?  A.  It  appears  to  he  in  the  Duke's---Q.  Do  you  not  recollect  having.  received  that  letter  from  the  Duke  of  York  ?  A.  I  never  re received  ceived received  that  letter  fron.  the  Duke,  or  any  other  in  the  name  of  G.  Farquhar----Q.  Do  you  recollect  any  application  to  his  Royal  Highness  which  could  have  given  occasion  to  his  writing  such  a  letter  as  this,  which  sayi---"
