text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  Wednesday,  Narch  22.  IR1)II  FLAX  SEED.  Mr.  FOSTrR  moved  the  order  of  the  day  for  the  second  read reading  ing reading  of  the  Bill  for  granting  20,000  t.  out  of  the  Irish  Consoli Consolidated  dated Consolidated  Fund  for  the  Encouragement  of  the  Saving  of  Flax  Seed  In  Ireland.  The  Cn  vicELLoa  of  the  •  EXCURQUE4  said,  that  in  sup supporting  porting supporting  the  Bill  he  had  .no  other  view,than  to  render  this  country  *wit  - STYLE=superscript  0y  independent  of  others,  for  the  supply  of  fo  essential  an  article  as  flax-seed.  At  present,  indeed  there  was  no  actual  want  of  it,  but  he  ti;ought  it  prudent  for  the  country  to  guard  against  all  possible  accidents;  for  _although  America  might  net  at  present  he  deemed  hostile  to  this  country,  there  was  ao  pos possibility  sibility possibility  of  deterniinin.g•  whether  she  might  not  become  so,  and  it  became  us  to  guard  against  all  pos:sible  contingents.  If  that  were  the  cape,  how  ever,  still  the  growers  of  flax  in  Ireland  ~ould  not  be  expected  to  forego  t!teir  own  interests  in  permitting  their  tiax  to  attain  the  proper  state  of  maturity,  when  it  could  yield  recd  fit  for  heitig  sown  11;,E.  succeeding  year,  unless  some  reward  was  held  out  to  then  sufficient  to  counterbalance  their  private  interest.  because  they  had  so  many  temptations  to  cut  it  at  an  earlier  period.  Mr.  PA  B.N  ELL  said  th;-  measure  was  liable  to  all  the  objec objections  tions objections  which  applied  ti;  bounties  in  general.  It  was  false  policy  to  eneoura  t  T,i;  ittly  article  by  bounties,  or  any  other  reward.  —  The  proper  way  to  encourage  them,  was  to  leave  them  entirely  p  IbrinEelve3,  and  permit  the  capitalists  to  employ  their  stock  in  any  manner  they  should  think  proper.  Mr.  Ga  ATTA  N  supported  the  Bill.  He  could  nqt  with  con confidence  fidence confidence  look  to  America  for  flax  seed,  which  was  indispensable  to  us,  and  where  were  we  to  look  for  it  hut  to  Ireland?  The  growth,  therefore,  in  that  country,  ought  to  be  encouraged  by  adequate  bounties,  without  which  it  could  not  be  raised.  It  was  a  measure  of  sal  cation,  and  we  ought  to  adopt  it,  and  keep  independent  of  other  countries,  Sir  JOHN  NEwpo  tut  did  not  think  the  propriety  of  the  mea•  sure  depended  upon  our  relationi  with  America,  and  he  would  agree  to  it  yen  if  our  Orders  in  Council  were  annulled,  and  the  embargo  fallen  off  tomorrow.  He  highly  disapproved  of  look looking  ing looking  to  foreign  countries  for  the  supply  of  so  necessary  an  article,  nod  if  thg  present  bill  were  not  acceded  to,  he  trusted  the  Chan Chancellor  cellor Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer  wonid  even  extend  the  principle  on  'which  it  proceeded  ;  he  should  have  hi,  support.  The  Bill  was  then  read  a  second  time.  •  .  A  Bill  was  brought  in  and  read  a  lira  titpe,  declaring  enemies'  Tes3el,,  captured  and  narried  into  Malta;•  to  be  ♦awful  prizes,  4nd  liabi  t  e  to  condemnation  there.  LAY  Y  ESTIMATES.  The  douse  then  went  into  a  Committee  of  Supply,  and  Mr.  WARD  moved  the  usual  Navy  Estimates  as  follow  c  .  •.  1,40  S  .4SII.  13s.  id.  for  the  Ordinaries  of  the  Navy,  including  *he  half-pay  of  the  (dicers  9.f  the  .Nayy  and  Marines.  2,  1 STYLE=superscript  20,0C10/.  for  building:sand  re-building  ships  of  war,  and  for  the  ordinary  allowance  of  wear  andicar.  •  SAW  000!.  fur  hiring  transports.  314,000/.•  to  defray  the  expence  of  Marines  at  home  and  ?broad.  •  •  50,0•  1 STYLE=superscript  0!.  to  defray  the  expence  of  prisopers  of  war  at  home  •  and  abroad.  .  .  •  506.000!_  to  defray  the  expenses  of  sick  and  wounded  seamen,  itt  h  (»Ile  and  abroad.  1  - STYLE=superscript  ',OO  l STYLE=superscript  .  to  form  a  Compassionate  List  for  the  Officers  of  the  Say.,  and  Marines,  foe  IZt-port  wit  , STYLE=superscript  .  then  9rdered  to  be  referred  to  the  Committee  pf  AV  a  art!  Nien  ns.  Tar  Expirin.4-  Laws  Bill  was  read  a  second  time.  The  ()titer  Orders  of  the  pay  were  then  disposed  of  ;  and  the  house  fidjourned.  MARCH  Q.  given,  and  'professed  his  profound  respect  and  submission  to  whatever  might  be  the  decision  of  the  House.  If  it  was  the,  pleasure  of  the  House,  the  Speaker  added,  he  would  read  the  letter.  Sir  M.  W.  Rim.  Est  spoke  shortly  in  extenuation  of  the  eon.  duct  of  General  Clavering.  That  Gentleman  allowed  that  hid  evidence  was  chargeable  with  contradiction,  hut  it  had  arisen  from  a  misconception  of  the  questions  that  Tie  put  to  him,  anti  not  from  any  wish  to  deceive  the  House.  begged  the  House  to  recollect,  that  even  the  Honourable  Member  who  brought  forward  the  charges  agaipst  the  Oldie  of  York,  had  been  obliged  to  explain  his  testimony,  and  had'forgotteh  when  he  had  seen  Mrs.  Clarke,  though  ho  had  semi  her  only  twenty-four  hours  be.  fore.  Mr.  MiNAueatTrN  thought  that  the  appeal  which  had  been  made  to  the  rank  and  education  of  General  Clavering,  t  for  nothing  at  all  ;  and  in  fact  rather  bore  against  hint,  as  something  very  difierent  was  to  he  expected  froin  him,  and  prevarication  ought  to  be  more  severely  visit.d  upon  such  •a  man  lima  upon  one  of  inferior  rank  in  'life.  Ile  w:s  . STYLE=superscript  .S  personally  unacquainted  with  Genmil•  Cla'erin  g  ;  but  he  believed,  if  his  Constituents  (Antrim)  were  asked  a  bout  blip,  they  could  say  something  of  hira.  Mrs.  Clarke,  so  far  as  she  could,  had  been  a  benefactress  to  the  GenerAl  i  and  coming  to  undermine  her  evil  dence,  he  had  wilfully  contradicted  himself.  What  would  the  public  say,  if  they  saw  Sandon  hurried  from  that  Baeto  Nevv.  gate,  and  General  Clavering  permitted  to  gounPunished  for  the  same  ()fence  ?  Mr.  WIIITUREAD  professed  lie  felt  considerable  surprize  at  hearin;  the  Honourable  Baronet  . STYLE=superscript  Make  'an  uncalled  for  attack  on  his  Hon.  Friend  (Mr.  Wardle),  who  had  come  forward  in  the  course  of  the  examination  to  explain  a  slight  mis.  take  which  he  had  fallen  into  from  want  of  recollection.  •  But  there  was  thi3  material  distinction  •  between  the  two  cases,  that  his  lion.  Friend  had  no  motive  'whatever  for  concealment.,  and  immediately  rectified  the  mistake;  while  Gen.  (layering  had  motive,  for  he  professedly  came  forward  to  overturn  and  con  •  found  the  evidence  of  the  principal  witness.  If  the  lion.  Baro Baronet  net Baronet  had  any  charge  against  the  evidence  of  his  Hon.  Friend,  he  called  upon  him  to  make  it  manfully.  If  the  letters  of  Gene Generat  rat Generat  Clavering  to  Mrs.  Clarke  bad  never  appeared,  his  testimony  would  have  gone  a  great  way  to  overturn  lter  evidence;  and  yet  it  was  to  be  observed,  that  General  Clavering  never  came  for  4  ward  to  correct  his  testimony  till  after  these  letters  appeared,  and  then  he  felt  it  nece3sary  to  oTer  an  exp  lanation,  which  in.  volved  him  farther.  The  Honoura  bt  Baronet  seemed  to  think  that  the  country  at  last  would  do  justrte  to  the  honour  of  General  Claverin  ;  on  the  contrary,  he  believed  that  as  long  as  people  were  able  to  read  his  evidence,  they  would  come  to  the  same  decision  Which  he  trusted  the  House  would'tome  to  that  night.  As  to  General  clavering's  family  and  connections,  he  certainly  must  feel  for  their  y  ery  painful  siteation.  But  had  not  Capt.  sandon  also  a  wife,  a  family,  and  connections?  If  Gem  Clavering  is  excused,  who  knows  but  such  an  example  of  im impunity  punity impunity  may  cost  at  a  future  timesome  one  his  life?  If  the  Ifouse  did  not  deal  out  impartial  justice  in  thiS  case,  it  would  give  at:-  ditional  currency  to  a.  disticb  which  was  too  of(  in  the  mouths  of  the  lower  orders  _  rich  men  were,  like  us,  to  swing,  It  would  make  land  cheaper,  so  many  would  Mr.  PERCI  VA  L.  for  his  part,  could  not  s?e  from  what  part  of  the  evidence  General  Clavering  could  be  :Wall  defended.  ,He  came  to  that  Bar,  tuisrepresentingthat.  which  led  him  there,  as  if  it  was  entirely  of  his  own  motive  and  desire,  •and  never  inti.  mated  that  he  had  had  the  least  communication  with  any  other  person  on  tht►  subject  ;  and  yet  when  to  caine  to  explain,  he  told  the4iouse,  that  he  was  not  a  voluntary  -  witness,  but  ha  4  been  brought  forward  by  Al  r.  L►►wteu.  But  above  all  he  first  told;  us  that  he  never  had  a+►y  communication  with  Mrs.  Clarke  on  the  subject  of  her  suppo,:ed  ingilence,  nay,  he  stated  that  be  came  forward  expressly  to  do  away  her  evidence  as  to  the  pat•  P6_TB00015 P6_TB00016 I  l  i.  came  torward  expressly  to  (!o  away  her  evidence  as  to  the  pat-  , STYLE=superscript  Thnr:oliv,  March  24.  ticulars,.  though  he  at  last  confeased  that  he  had  offered  her  Mr.  Alderman  'cog  HE  obtained  leave  to  kring  in  a  Bill  for  10010  t.  for  her  influence,'  and  this  fact  niteit  have  been  all  the  eve  ing  a  Sunday  Toll  on  all  noises  and  Carrir;ges  passing  Black-  ime  in  his  knowledge,  and  'impressed  upon  his  mind.  }  riarssbridge.  The  question  being  called  for  from  all  parts  of  the  Honse.  Mr.  WI  LBER  FO  R  c}:  brought  in  the  Bill  for  Levvinr,  a  Toll  Strangers  were  then  ordered  to  withdrew;  hitt  the  motion  wng  on  Sundays~  on  all  horses  and  tarringes  passing  Westminster-.  carried  without  a  t!ivision,  and  the  Serjeat  at  Arms  was  order-  pridge  s  w'h'ich  was  read  a  first  time,.  and  ordered  for  a  second  ed  to  take  General  Clavering  into  custody.—Adjourned,  readir4.  ~,  ,  .  .  ,  .  ,  •  .  .  .  ,  ..  (iC,7;ErT.  Ci...tirj-ING.  FridaN  t  March  24.  ,  .  the  . STYLE=superscript  4  . STYLE=superscript  p.  CAICEIt  arlfilaitlied  the  Howie;  tbm  he  hail  received  a  p  The  SPEAKER  acquainted  the  Ilouse  that  his  Ma;esty's  Assent  etter,..4.oo}  General  ('layering.  in  1.'1  . STYLE=superscript  663  he  deditred  his  inuo-'i  had  been  given  by  Commission  to  the  Bill  for  Granting  Anntiillea  ituct  of  any  Isilf4l  integtion  to  ci:cetv.::  In  t  6:  evideuc  c  lie  had  .t  for  the  Redemption  of  I,4chequer  bill`;  to  the  4111  fot  tc&amp;ulailac  .  ~•..  •,,  ;.,•.  6  ;  •  ...  r•  .  .  •  .  .  .'  .._  _•  -  ....  •  .  •  -,.  MARCH  26.  the  Royal  Marines  while  on  Shore;  the  Jamaica  Free  Port  Bill,  and  several  private  Bills.  GENERAL  CLAVERING.  The  Sergeant  at  Arms  having  reported  that  he  had  taken  Gen.  Clavering  into  custody,  Mr.WYNm  moved,  that  General  Clavering,  having  grossly  prevaricated  in  his  evidence  given  before  a  Committee  of  the  whole  House,  and  being  now  in  the  custody  of  the  Sergeant  at  Arms,  be  committed  to  the  custody  of  the  Keeper  of  his  Ma Majesty's  jesty's Majesty's  Priam'  of  Newgate.  Agreed  to.  MILITIA.  Lord  CASTI.EREA  au  moved  the  Order  of  the  Day  for  the  se second  cond second  reading  of  the  Militia  Completion  Bill.  Lord  ARCHIBALD  HAMILTON  objected  to  the  general  prin principle  ciple principle  of  the  measure,  which  he  contended  was  ruinous  to  the  constitutional  defence  of  the  nation,  and  concluded  with  moving  that  the  Bill  be  read  a  second  time  this  day  three  months.  Mr.  GILES,  Col.  DUCKETT,  Mr.  LOCKHA  RT,  and  Mr.  BAs-  TA  RI),  said  a  few  words,  when  the  house  . STYLE=superscript  divided,—for  the  Amendment,—Ayes  g6—Noes  45—Majority  19.  The  bill  was  then  read  a  second  time,  and  ordered  to  be  com committed  mitted committed  on  Monday.-  Adjourned.  TUESDAY'S  LOXDON  GAZETTE.  Whitehall,  March  21.  The  King  has  been  pleased  to  order  a  Letter  to  be  directed  to  the  Chapter  of  the  Cathedral  Church  of  Hereford,  recommend recommending  ing recommending  unto  them  the  Rev.  George  Gretton,  Doctor  in  Divinity,  to  be  chosen  into  the  place  of  Dean  of  the  said  Cathedral  Church  of  the  same,  being  void  by  the  death  of  the  Rev.  William  Leigh,  iato  Dean  thereof,  Crown•Ofce,  March  21,  1809.  Members  returned  to  serve  in  the  present  Parliament.  Borough  of  King's  Lynn—The  Hon.  Horatio  Walpole,  com commonly  monly commonly  called  Lord  Walpole,  in  the  room  of  Lord  Walpole,  now  Earl  of  Orford,  a  Peer  of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Ireland.  Borough  of  Dungannon—Claud  Scott,  Esq.  in  the  room  of  the  Right  Hon.  Claud  Hamilton,  commonly  called  Lord  Claud  Ha Ha►nilton,  ►nilton, Ha►nilton,  deceased.  City  of  Peterborough—The  Hon.  Francii.  Russell,  commonly  willed  Marquis  of  Tavistock,  in  the  room  of  French  Laurence,  Esq.  deceased."
