text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  110  Monday  about  one  o:elock  his  Majesty  arrived  at  the  Queen's  Palace  from  Windsor.  At  two  o'clock  his  Majesty  held  a  private  Levee,  after  which  there  were  numerous  presentations.  His  Majesty  gave  private  audiences  to  the  Duke  of  Portland  and  the  other  Cabinet  Ministers,  who  were  all  present,  except  the  Earl  of  Chatham  and  Earl  Bathurst.  His  Majesty  proceeded  to  prick  for  the  Sheriff:  for  the  year  ensuing.  The  Court  did  not  break  up  till  about  seven  o'clock;  after  which  his  Majesty  set  off  on  his  return  to  Windsor.  It  was  more  numerously  attended  than  any  Court  that  has  been  held  at  the  Queen's  Palace.  Monday  a  Court  of  Common  Council  was  held  at  Guild Guildball,  ball, Guildball,  which  was  numerously  attended.  The  Committee  for  Ge General  neral General  Purposes  reported  relative  to  the  expiration  of  the  Ad  for  laying  a  toll  upon  horses  and  carriages  passing  on  a  Sunday  ever  Blackfriars-bridge,  H  hick  was  read,  and  the  Court  agreed  to  a  Petition  to  the  House  of  Commons,  for  a  continuance  of  the  said  Act  ;  which  was  ordered  to  be  fairly  transcribed,  and  signed  by  the  Town  Clerk,  and  presented  forthwith  by  the  Sheriffs,  attended.  by  the  Remembrancer  ;  and  al-o  a  Petition  for  leave  to  brio..  a  Bill  for  the  removal  of  Smith  fi  eld  Market.  Mr.  ' STYLE=superscript  Wardle  is  a  native  of  Cheshire,  and  a  man  of  consi considerable  derable considerable  fortune.  He  served  in  Ireland  during  the  diAurbanc...s  of  1798,  as  Niajor  of  the  regiment  of  Ancient  Britons,  of  which  -  gir  Watkin  Williams  W  yore  was  Colonel.  Since  that  time  Mr.  Wardle  has  been  remarkable,  chiefly  as  a  ban  vivant,  and  an  ardent  amateur  of  the  sports  of  the  field.  Ile  has  astonished  all  his  Cheshire  friends,  by  the  warmth  with  which  he  has  entered  upon  his  political  career,  as  well  by  the  ability  with  which  he  has  hitherto  proceeded.  POPULAR  PREACHERS.  No.  XX  VI.  Canst  thou  dream  there  is  a  pow'r  In  lighter  diet,  at  a  later  hour,  'To  charm  to  sleep  the  threatening  of  the  skies,  And  hide  past  folly  from  all-seeing  eyes  ?  The  fast  that  wins  deliverance,  and  suspends  The  stroke  that  a  vindictive  God  intends,  Is  to  renounce  hypocrisy  ;  to  draw  Thy  life  upon  the  pattern  of  the  law;  To  war  with  pleasure,  idoliz'd  before;  To  vanquish  lust,  and  wear  its  yoke  uo  more.  Cow  PER.  RIGHT  REVEREND  -rut  BISHOP  OF  CARLISLE.  IF  any  apology  is  required  for  the  introduction  of  the  present  Prelate  to  the  notice  of  the  public,  that  apology  offers  itself  in  the  occasion  on  which  he  last  preached,  and  the  audience  to  which  his  sermon  was  addressed.  As  the  occasion  was  national,  so  was  the  audience  popular.  The  sermon  also  is  deserving  of  very  general  attention  ;  and  the  BISHOP  Of  CARLISLE,  on  the  whole,  certainly  made  *an  impression  highly  creditable  to  his  own  talents,  as  well  as  beneficial  to  his  numerous  hearers.  The  Bishop's  text,  which  was  peculiarly  appropriate,  is  recorded  in  the  Book  qf  the  Prophet  Isaiah;  and  may  he  found  in  the  '26th  Chapter,  and  at  the  9th  Verse,  of  bit  Prophecy.—Wilh  my  soul  have  I  desired  Thee  in  the-night:  yea,  with  my  spirit  within  me  will  I  seed':  Thee  early:  for  when  thy  judgments  are  in  the  earth,  the  inhabitants  of  the  world  will  learn  righteousness.  Notwithstanding  the  opinion  already  expressed  of  the  ability  of  the  new  Bishop  of  Carlisle,  he  must  allow  me  to  dissent  from  him  respecting  the  propriety,  or  even  the  ne necessity,  cessity, necessity,  of  his  critical  explanation  of  part  of  the  text  which  formed  the  subject  of  his  excellent  discourse.  Whether  Nye  read,  with  the  Vulgate,  when  thy  .  &amp;c.  or,  AS  his  Lordship  would  render  it,  amirding  or,  in  proportion  speaking  of  the  Almighty,  ‘,  thy  judg judgments  ments judgments  are  abroad  in  the  &amp;c.  the  distinction,  it  ap appears  pears appears  to  me,  is  by  no  means  essential  to  the  full  and  true  application  of  this  passage  of  Holy  'Writ.  Such  expesitory  discussions,  indeed,.  if  not  really  beneficial,  are  serioudy  detrimental.  Either  let  review  and  revise  the  common  bible  altogether,  or  eke  !Lt.  us  IC:igious4  refrain  from  !es-  FEB.  le.  sealing  its  authority  with  the  mass  of  the  people.  Is  not  the  authority  of  our  Common  Bible  impeached,  and  its  in influence  fluence influence  affected,  by  every  unnecessary  a:tempt  to  explain  its  supposed  diffiebilties,  and  correct  its  imagined  inaccura inaccuracies  cies inaccuracies  ?  His  Lordship's  exordium  was  otherwise  highly  in instructive  structive instructive  and  interesting.  The  division  of  his  subject  was  perfectly  judicious,  and  his  illustrations  were  strikingly  apposite.  His  sermon  very  properly  referred,  immediately  and  principally,  to  the  situation  of  this  country.  He  did  not  attempt  to  discuss  the  nature  of  fast-days.  With  a  precision  always  admirable,  and  an  energy  often  commanding,  he  traced,  from  the  cradle  of  philoscphical  infidelity,  the  growth  of  that  demon  which,  hiv.ing  first  tinder tinderth..!  th..! tinderth..!  moral  supports  of  society,  has  produced  the  subversion  of  legitimate  supremacy,  and  the  conse consequent  quent consequent  desolation  of  empires  and  countries.  His  allusion  to  the  great  Frederick  of  Prussia,  together  with  his  exempli exemplification,  fication, exemplification,  in  the  ruin  of  that  power,  of  the  effects  resulting  from  the  countenance  afforded  to  infidel  principles,  was  as  just  as  it  was  forcible.  if  any  part  of  the  picture  seemed  to  be  incongruous,  it  was  where  th.;  Bishop  found  it  incumbent:  on  him  to  introduce  the  corruption  and  degeneracy  of  the  highest  orders  of  civilized  cornmunitles.  Here,  I  think,  he  rather  softened  his  general  colouring.  It  well  became  the  Bishop  of  Carlisle,  as  a  christian  preacher,  to  insist,  in  the  manner  he  did,  on  the  folly  and  danger  and  impiety,  now  so  growingly  prevalent,  of  almost  excluding  the  Divine  Creator  from  interfering  in  the  con concerns  cerns concerns  of  his  human  creatures.  How  deplorable  is  such  a  persuasion,  when,  as  the  Bishop  of  Carlisle  too  truly  ob observed,  served, observed,  there  is  a  Power  raised  for  the  scourging  and  afflicting  of  the  nations  ;  and  when,  as  to  ourselves,  We  have  now  no  Ally,  if  we  have  not  God  We,  how however,  ever, however,  seem  sadly  disposed  to  discard  the  assistance  of  the  Di Divine  vine Divine  Providence  ;  and  this,  too,  at  the  precise  period  when  mast  we  need  its  interposition  and  protection  !  Happy,  happy,  most  llappy,  the  man,  who  secs  1  God  employed  In  all  the  good  and  ill  that  ehecquers  life  !  Resolving  all  events,  with  their  effects,  And  manifold  re‘ults,  into  the  will  And  arbitration  wise  of  the  Supreme.  The  Task.  Really,  it  is  vain,  and  worse  than  vain,  to  boast  of  hu human  man human  genius,  or  prowess,  as  alone  able  to  give  chit-ability  to  earthly  power.  Why  (as  the  Bishop  demanded)  if  the  continuance  of  human  authority  depends  wholly  on  the  exercise  of  human  ability,  have  so  many  powerful  dynast.  ties,  in  various  epochs  of  the  world,  rose  and  fell,  without  one  of  them  attaining  to  any  thin:;  resembling  perpetuity  ?  And  how  comes  it,  we  might  add,  that  of  those,  succes successively  sively successively  distinguished  from  among  their  several  contempora contemporaries,  ries, contemporaries,  who  alter  and  decide,  humaniv  s;:eaking,  the  desti destinies  nies destinies  cif  communities—how  happens  it  that,  of  such  cha characters,  racters, characters,  one  age  is  more  prolific  than  another  ;  and  that,  in  many  instances,  such  characters  appear  only  in  certain  ages,  and  in  particular  countries  ?  While  we  cannot  dispute  the  effect  of  this  dispensation,  we  persist,  nevertheless,  in  wilfully  resisting  the  cause.  I  was  much  gratified  to  find  the  Bishop  of  Carlisle  en entirely  tirely entirely  consistent.  Taught  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  well  as  disci disciplined  plined disciplined  by  he  insisted,  wi!li  much  earnestness  and  devotion,  on  the  important  doctrine  of  the  divine  atone atonement.  ment. atonement.  He  disdained  to  halt  between  orthodoxy  and  theo theoloLty;  loLty; theoloLty;  resting  his  hope  of  eternal  salvation,  directly  and  absolutely,  on  his  acceptance  through  the  merits  of  his  heavenly  mediator  and  redeemer  !  Let  us  look  for  some  good  from  this  episcopal  example.  Aly  present  limits  preclude  me  from  following  the  Bishop  of  Carlisle  through  other  topics;  or,  I  should  gladly  avail  myself  of  this  occasion  to  discuss,  with  him,  the  necessity  of  erecting  places  of  worship  for  the  agreeable,  yet  gra gratuitous,  tuitous, gratuitous,  accommodation  of  the  people.  The  measure  is  entitled  to  consideration.  I  shall  perhaps  venture,  at  a  more  convenient  opportunity,  to  suggest  some  observa  tioes  respecting  it.  P14_TB00014 v•  •  •  ii*;ts  , STYLE=superscript  •  •  :  ••  •  •"
