text
"BANKRUPTS.  Esther  Rayner  and  John  Medley,  Newport,  corn-dealers,  to  sureemder  March  21,  at  three;  22,  at  eleven,  mad  April  18,  at  two,  at  the  Bugle  Inn,  Newport.  Attorney,  Mr.  Worsley,  Newport.  John  Scott,  Gumecester,  Huntingdon,  blacksmith,  April  4,  5  and  18,  at  eleven,  at  the  Fountain  Inn,  Huntingdon.  Attornies,  Messrs.  Maule  and  Sweetings,  Huntingdon.  Hannah  Rees,  Neat!),  Glantort  , STYLE=superscript  an,  mercer,  March  24,  25,  and  April  18,  at  eleven,  at  .the  dush  Inn,  Swansea.  Attornies,  Messrs.  Bleasdale,  Alexander  and  Holme,  New  Inn  ;  Messrs.  Davies  and  Barrington,  Swansea  William  Burt,  Colyton,  Devon,  meney-serivenir,  March  16,  at  three,  21,  and  April  18,  at  eleven,  at  the  Dolphin  inn,  Coly Colyton.  ton. Colyton.  Attornies,  Mr.  Sampson,  Colyton;  Mr.  Warry,  New  _  _  James  Manning,  Bristol,  grocer,  March  17,  18,  and  April  18,  at  twelve,  at  the  White  Lion  Inn,  Broad-street,  Bristol.  At Attnrnies,  tnrnies, Attnrnies,  Mr.  Franks,  Ilart-street,  Bloomsbury-square;  and  Messrs.  Leman,  Bristol.  William  Ile'sop,  Lon!  , STYLE=superscript  Acre,  man's-mercer,  March  20,  at  ten,  April  17,  at  two,  and  IS,  at  twelve,  at  Guildhall.  Attorney,  Mr.  Sweet,  Furnival's  Inn  -court,  Holborn.  Michael  Matthews,  Bath,  grocer  '  March  11,  27,  and  April  IS,  at  eleven,  at  the  Greyhound,  Bath.  Attornies,  Mr.  Ed Edmunds,.  munds,. Edmunds,.  Exchequer  Office  of  Pleas,  Lincoln's  Inn;  and  Mr.  Mil Miller,  ler, Miller,  Bath.  Archibald  M‘Bride,  Liverpool,  perfumer,  March  17,  18.  and  April  18,  at  eleven,  at  the  Globe  Tavern,John-street,  Liver Liverpool.  pool. Liverpool.  Attornies,  Mr.  Windle,  John-street,  Bedford-row;  and  blesri.  Griffith  and  Ilinde,  Lower  Castle-street,  Liverpool.  William  Lamb,  .Dudley,  Worcester,  victualler,  March  20,21,  and  April  18,  at  eleven,  at  the  Dog  Inn,  Spice:ill-street,  Bir Birmingham.  mingham. Birmingham.  Attornies,  Mr.  Gabel',  Lincoln's  Inn  ;  and  Mr.  Parker,  Birmingham.  Thomas  Crane,  Preston,  ironmonger,  April  7,8,  and  18,  at  one,  at  the  Star  and  Garter  Tavern,  Paradise-street,  Liverpool.  Attorney.  Mr.  A.vison,  Hanover-street,  Liverpool.  •  Henry  Martin,  Wallingford,  Berks,  linen-draper,  March  11,  18,  and  April  18,  at  eleven,  at  Guildhall.  Attornies,  Messrs.  Bourdillon  and  Hewitt,  Little  Friday-street.  John  Schaffer,  London-road,  Surrey,  door-cloth-manufacturer,  March  11,  21,  and  April  IS,  at  ten,  at  Guildhall.  - STYLE=superscript  AttOrney  t  Godmond,  New  Bridge-street.  .  .„  CERTIFICATES-MARCH  28.  Bates,  Brereton,  Staffordshire,  grocer.  Renton,  Gloucester Gloucesterterrace,  terrace, Gloucesterterrace,  Stepney,  master-mariner.  Brown,  King-street,  Blooms Bloomsbury,  bury, Bloomsbury,  grocer.  SATURDAY'S  LO.VDOIV'  GAZETTE.  Lord  Cochrane  to  Lord  Collingwnod.  MY  LOR  n,  Imperituse,  Bay  if  Rosas,  December  5,  1808.  The  fortress  of  Rosas  being  attacked  by  an  army  of  Italians  tn  the  service  of  France,  in  pursuance  of  discretionary  orders  that  your  Lordship  had  given  me,  to  a  s  sist  the  Spaniards  where whereever  ever whereever  it  could  be  done  with  6  , STYLE=superscript  2.  most  effect,  I  hastened  here.  The  Citadel,  on  the  22d  ult.  was  already  half  invested,  and  the  enemy  making  his  approaches  towards  the  south  west  bastion,  which  your  Lordship  knows  was  blown  down  last  war  by  the  ex explosion  plosion explosion  of  a  magazine,  and  tumbled  into  the  ditch  ;  a  few  itLin  planks  and  dry  stones  had  been  put  up  by  the  Spanish  engineers,  perhaps  to  hide  the  defect  ;  all  things  were  in  a  mast  deplorable  state,  both  without  and  within,  even  measures  for  their  powder.  and  saws  for  their  fuses  were  not  to  be  had—hats  and  axes  supplied  their  place.  The  castle  of  Trinidad,  situated  on  an  eminence  but  commanded  by  heights,  was  also  invested  ;  three  twenty-four-pounders  battered  in  breach,  to  which  a  fourth  was  afterwards  added,  and  a  passage  through  the  wall  to  ihe  lower  bomb-proof  being  nearly  effected,  on  the  2.1  d  the  marines  of  the  Fatue  were  withdrawn.  I  went  to  examine  the  state  of  the  castle)"
