text
"POLITICAL  DlSQUisrrioN.  NUMBER  SIXTY-THRtE.  WAIt  BETWEEN  AUSTRIA  AND  FRANCE.  We  enter  upon  this  subject  with  almost  the  same  feeling  and  solemnity,  as  we  would  propose  measures  for  securing  our  own  independence,  were  the  enemy  uncontrouled  master  of  the  seas.  The  same  phenomena  which  preceded,  at  any  one  period,  the  es establishment  tablishment establishment  of  a  general  system  of  conquest,  rapine,  and  slavery,  begin  to  appear  s  every  day,  in  a  more  and  mote  alarming  de degree.  gree. degree.  The  terror  and  general  sympathy,  which  the  novelty  of  the  danger  had  created,  have  already  began  to  abate  sensibly  ;  and  governments  and  states  acknowledge  the  empire  of  custom.  Familiarity  has  rendered  the  first  terrible  impression  less  mon monstrous  strous monstrous  and  repulsive.  A  number  of  the  ancient  harriers  have  been  swept  away  ;  the  landmarks  have  disappeared  ;  the  last  rnounds  s  hich  intervened  between  our  fields  and  the  inunda inundation,  tion, inundation,  are  shaken  by  its  fury  ;  and  Ise  look,  with  stupid  indif.  ference,  with  the  empty  stare  of  bewildered  folly,  on  the  vast  scene  of  desolation.  No  serious  measures  bave  been  proposed,  not  even  the  will  is  manifested,  on  our  part,  to  avert  from  our  neighbours  the  calamity,  which,  after  it  has  overspread  their  lands,  will  rage,  with  tenfold  violence,  against  our  own  fences.  We  perceive  the  danger  of  their  situation,  and  may  easily  anti anticipate  cipate anticipate  our  own  ;  their  imploring  cries  are  heard;  their  hands,  invoking  as,istarice  s  are  stretched  out  to  us;  but  neither  sympa sympathy  thy sympathy  in  their  distress,  nor  the  roar  of  the  approaching  torrent,  can  render  us  more  alert,  or  produce  a  corresponding  measure  of  vigilance  and  action.  The  low  vices  of  dissipation  old  avarice  undermine  the  nati national  onal national  Character.  An  incessant  pisrsta  of  pleasure,  and  of  wealth  to  gratify  it,  occupies  our  facultiPs  and  comprises  our  wishes.—  All  the  male  and  ennobling  virtues  begin  to  migrate  from  a  (sotto (sottotry  try (sottotry  where  they  long  sojourned  ;  and  temperance,  love  of  glory,  disinterestedness  and  patriotism,  find  no  avenue  into  bo bosoms,  soms, bosoms,  which  are  incrusted  with  a  thick  and  solid  rust  of  selfish selfishness  ness selfishness  and  base  desires.  The  infection  has  - STYLE=superscript  begun  with  the  higher  class,  and  communicates  rapidly,  through  the  Fe  veral  grada gradations,  tions, gradations,  to  the  lowest  orders  of  the  state.  The  rich  and  the  poor,  the  nobleman  and  the  mechanic,  have  now  their  midnight  orgies,  and  resort  to  means  equally  iniquitous  in  order  to  support  them  —the  one  defrauds  his  creditor,  and  the  other  his  employer;  whilst  both  display  more  alarming  indifference  to  their  social  obligations.  Thus  the  heartless  debauchery  of  the  castle,and  the  wild  riot  of  the  cellar,  equally  contribute  to  corrupt  the  moral  and  physical  stamina  of  the  community;  and  our  feelings  arc  blunted,  our  strength  too  much  dissipated,  to  be  able  to  display  energy,  resentment,  or  enthusiasm,  sufficient  to  surmount  the  dif difficulties,  ficulties, difficulties,  or  punish  the  atrocities  of  the  pre4ent  age.  These  disheartening  reflections  rush  upon  our  minds  with  a  painful  conviction,  whenever  we  take  a  survey  of  our  national  concerns  and  pursuits.  On  the  part  of  the  public,  a  chilling  apathy  is  visible;  on  that  of  Ministers,  weakness,  and  irresolution.  The  inch:-  knee  and  improvidence  of  the  latter  are  as  repulsive,  as  the  inditference  of  the  former  is  alarming.  Every  sign  tends  to  de depress;  press; depress;  nothing  to  encourage.  Though  the  most  vital  interests  of  the  country  are  at  stake,  its  freedom,  institutions,  its  very  existence  are  menaced  ;  a  peevish,  impatient,  puerile,  con concern  cern concern  is  manifested  about  trifling  grievances,  which  men  of  a  ceitain  cast,  were  they  to  occur  to  thew  in  private  life,  would  Vat.  I  f  LXV."
