text
"MARCH  19.  which  had  been  brought  forward  meld  not  induce  him  to  cons  yet  se  that  Mrs.  Clarke  had  any  influence  with  the  Commander  sn  Chief.  This  conclusion  was  so  preposterous,  that  he  tatty  Hon.  Baronet  believed  the  Right  Hilo.  (gentleman)  stood  zilone  in  that  opinion,  but  how  ever  improbable  his  opinion  might  be,  it  could  have  no  improper  weight  with  the  House.  Mrs.  (;1  irks,  by  the  Right  Honourable  G  en  tleman,  had  been  as  it  were  sited  to  the  bo:emt.  When  511  C  first  appeared  at  the  Bar,  the  most  unfavourable  impressian  was  made  on  the  tniods  of  her  hearers,  from  her  situation  in  life;  but  on  her  proceeding  in  her  evidence  the  impression  became  of  a  dilferent  nature.  She  came  forward  under  peculiar  disadvantage:,  her  known  character  and  situation,  and  very  little  dependence,  if  any,  was  placed  on  her  testimony  ;  and  as  she  went  on,  however,  other  circumstances  occurred,  and  such  a  system  was  unra unravelled  velled unravelled  as  no  human  ineenuity  could  have  fabricated.  The  Attorney  General,  too,  was  completely  thwarted  in  all  his  exertious,  for  if  he  had  discovered  the  slightest  error  in  her  conduct  or  demeanour,  he  would  have  overturned  all  her  es  i ideuce.  deuce. ideuce.  He  had  heaped  hypothesis  upon  h%pothesis,  surmise  upon  surmise,  and  had  drawn  inference  upon  inference,  but  had  still  been  unable  to  gain  his  point.  Mrs.  Clarke,  he  said,  was  a  prodigy  of  art  at:  invention.  The  evidence  upon  the  whole  was  such  as  the  nature  of  the  case  would  admit  ;.and  there  were  the  most  reasonable  grounds  to  admit,  that  the  most  cor corrupt  rupt corrupt  influence  existed,  and  it  was  observable  to  any  common  mind,  t  ;tat  Mrs.  Clarke  was  making  a  tool  of  his  Royal  High Highness,  ness, Highness,  in  order  to  answer  her  own  purposes,  and  this  was  the  most  favourable  construction  that  could  possihly  he  put  on  coo:luct  so  impre  per;  and  the  evidence  was  so  strong,  that  it  redounded  to  tile  eternal  shame  of  his  Itoyal  Highness,  and  would  to  ally  other  man  be  considered  as  disgraceful  in  the  ex extreme.  treme. extreme.  The  lion.  Gentlemen  of  the  lung  robe,  the  Learned  Gen Gentlemen  tlemen Gentlemen  :say.  that  the  evidence  of  -.rt.  Ciarke  is  not  admissible,  but  when  her  testimony  is  supported  by  other  wi  eiesses,  whose  cheracters  statel  mtini  peached,  for  instance,  by  the  testimony  of  Miss  Taylor,  who  certainly  was  a  most  respectable  witness,  how  could  a  doubt  exist?  Merely  front  her  not  knowing  on  a  cer certain  tain certain  day  when  a  Major  Was  appointed.  The  Rieht  Hon.  Gentle Gentleman  man Gentleman  (the  Chancellor  of  the  Exchequer)  said  that,  that  31  is-  Taylor  ought  not  to  be  believed  ;  nobody  knew  why  ;  and  then  he  endeavoured  to  explain  away  his  words,  by  stating,  that  she  s:titl  his  Royal  Highness  had  used  certaia  expressions,  stall  as,•  How  tines  he  use  you,  Darling  which  were  applicable  to  the  caw  she  had  to  prove  only,  but  could  not  recollect  any  other  part  of  the  conversation  which  might  tend  to  the  elticida  lion  of  some  other  point  ;  and  this  want  of  recollection  the  Honourable  (gentleman  asserted,  was  a  ground  fur  tohil  di  ,belief.  lu  answer  to  this  argument  it  might  be  asked,  whether,  if  two  persons  felt  inclined  to  conspire  t  4E:ether,  they  would  not  make  their  rase  strong  enough  to  prove  all  they  might  wish  to  maintain  ?  And  not  by  a  lame  and  unfinished  story,  s  ibject  themselves  to  detection.  A  Learned  Judge  (Mr.  Burton)  bad  also  endeavoured  to  destroy  the  evidence  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  but  bad  not  produced  a  single  argument  against  her  credibilLeityarnexd  ,  e ecept  cept ecept  her  character  as  conn  e STYLE=superscript  c  ted STYLE=superscript  with  the  Duke.  The  .  Judge  had  asserted,  that  Mrs.  Clarke  had  contradicted  herself  in  tile  course  of  her  testheetty  t  eitty-eieht  times,  and  from  the  known  ability  of  the  Learned  Judge,  he  had  listened  with  con considerahle  siderahle considerahle  attention  and  anxiety  fur  the  proofs  of  that  averment,  but  he  had  a  ;sited  in  vain,  although  he  would  have  been  ready  to  admit,  without  hesita  tion, STYLE=superscript  that  such  cootradiction  would  certaiely  go  materially  to  discredit  her  evidence.  One  ground  for  the  disbelief  ‘of  her  testimony  was,  her  not  having  recollected  (dearly  circumstances  whit  h  had  occurred  four  years  and  a  half  ago,  and  her  having  asserted  that  she  bad  not  told  Mr.  Knight  to  keee  secret  frees  Pile  Duke  the  transaction  relative  to  his  ex exchange.  change. exchange.  It  was  fair,  however,  to  recollect,  that  the  assertion  wa  s  made  on  both  sides,  an  d STYLE=superscript  that STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  veracity  of  each  was  equally  entitled  to  credit.  Miss  Taylor's  evidence  was  likewise  ;le-credited,  because  she  could  not  telt  whether  her  father  was  called  Chance  or  Taylor,  but  he  conceived  her  as  complete  and  as  creditable  a  witnes  s STYLE=superscript  as STYLE=superscript  had STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  pp  eared STYLE=superscript  at STYLE=superscript  the STYLE=superscript  Bar.  ri  an  lion.  Member  who  spoke  early  iu  this  &amp;hale.  I  beg  paftlon,  I  must  call  him  a  Learned  Gentleman,  for  he  is  His  Majesty's  Attorney-G.meral;  to  whom  I  listened  with  the  greateat  atten attention  tion attention  ;  and  although  I  never  had  al  opportunity  of  knowing  him,  I  did  expect  that  he  would  have  stated  some  luminous  points,  some  elucidation  of  the  case;  but  how  have  we  been  disappoint-  Sir,  I  remember  basing  heard  of  a  great  Lavyer.  a  Mr.  Dunning  . STYLE=superscript  ,  Who,  on  being  as!stal  by  a  Client  to  recommend  him  to  a  Couwelioe  the  most  proper  for  his  ease,  asked  him  what  your  The  percrtiapplylnz  answered,  4it  i  s  a  vm,.;  VI;  I  .  -  had  If  said  Mr.  Dutteing,  oil  11.111  bet  !Cr  take  the  worst  Counsellor  you  can  ;.et;  fur  ein;-10\  a  man  of  genius  he  will  be  hampered  vviih  it,  but  a  b.,'  Collo  selfor  w  ill  not  stop  upon  any  point,  for  he  v%  ill  go  on  without  t  aid  hy  using.  many  words,  have  the  appLarance  of  ma  One  a  great  (  dear!  And  so,  in  the  i,resect  il'stance,  defence  made  by  that  Learned  Counsellor  oppesite  lil  con confess,  fess, confess,  given  me  a  very  strong  im  i  /..!-ssion  as  to  the  depth  of  his  understandise.;;  and  it  puts  me  in  min.:  o!'ln  ass,  w  Ito  1%  itt  re  t  est  the  choicest  food  for  the  ,:the  of  enjoy  lug  a  feast  atoll:  thistles;  or  of  ehriiiiau  in  The  Pilg..int's  l'eugrts,  who,  vi  lien  he  was  is  the  slough  of  Despond,  had  to  leave  his  travelling  companion  in  the  uncl,  as  the  Learned  Gentleman  had  left  his  Oil  nt,  the  Duke  of  Vork,  and  out  of  which  all  the  Anti-Jacos.,is  land  would  not  be  ahle  to  extricate  hiw.  ;leaf  !  hear  !  hear!)  That  same  Learned  Gentleman,  towards  the  conel:isiou  Of  his  speech,  seemed  to  express  a  great  doubt  as  to  the  hand handwriting  writing handwriting  of  the  note  about  Capt.  Touyn  ;  for,  after  it  had  ht  etv  proved  hy  the  hest  of  evidence,  the  worst  was  brought  fore  art.i  to  rebut  the  best,  and  :te  boldly  calls  it  a  forgery,  because  Mr,.  Clarke  had  stated  that  she  could  write  very  like  the  Duke  of  York.  But  with  all  his  ability  he  was  unable  to  prove  that  )Irs.  Clarke  had  ever  obtained  any  money  by  her  extraordina  , STYLE=superscript  v  talent.  This  Harpy,  iv•  the  Ilimourable  Gentleman  was  plea;  t•  1  to  call  her,  w  hen  she  got  money,  invariably  paid  it  to  ;tur  needy  tradesmen,  and  when  she  was  importunate  with  tile  Duke  of  Y  ork,  it  nas  on  account  of  the  poor  persons  to  w  ham  she  was  in  debt.  I  t STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  pp  eared, STYLE=superscript  indeed,  from  all  the  collateral  circumstances,  that  there  was  not  a  witoess  who  h  had  no  t  substantiated  her  evidence  in  the STYLE=superscript  most STYLE=superscript  material STYLE=superscript  points.  Tem  never  was  a  witness  more  fearless,  anti  the  evidence  was  so  cir circumstantial,  cumstantial, circumstantial,  that  it  would  be  admitted  in  any  court  of  justice,  iiitheut  a  moment's  hesitating.  The  Learned  Gentlemen  ie.  adoptiiig  this  cause,  seemed  to  have  10.,t  all  their  ability.  They  seemell  to  think  Mrs.  Clarke  a  vv  itch,  and  from  the  power  of  her  enchantatent,  conceived  it  was  not  at  all  won  the  Duke  of  Vol.!:  should  have  been  seduced  by  her  spell:  ;  but  with  all  their  hypothesis  they  were  unable  to  form  any  conclusion  favor favorahlc  ahlc favorahlc  to  themselves.  They  could  look  at  the  noon-dav  -sun  art  pass  over  the  most  palpable  and  incontrovertible  hull's,  but  would  stoop  in  the  musky  mist  to  pick  up  straws,  and  chick  o  soar  t  trifles  light  as  air  to  supp  ort STYLE=superscript  t:Trir STYLE=superscript  sinking STYLE=superscript  cause.  ruth  t  lawyer  is  like  red  rag  to STYLE=superscript  a STYLE=superscript  vi STYLE=superscript  p  er, STYLE=superscript  at STYLE=superscript  which STYLE=superscript  he STYLE=superscript  snaps,  in  arid  ex  d  -  tracts  the  tin;;  from  the  envemoned  gums.  It  is  a  prtfel  an  unpleasant  consideration  to  think  on  one  side  •tre  have  evidence  which  gees  to  the  fullest  extent  in  support  of  the  alleged  cri criminality,  minality, criminality,  while  on  the  other  hand  we  have  the  letter  of  the  Duke  of  York,  denying  the  facts  so  clearly  proved.  What  difference  is  there  between  the  evidence  of  Mrs.  Clarke  and  Mr.  Adams.  There  is  no  dnction  as  witnesses,  the  one  is  as  good  as  the  other.  An  appeal  is  made  to  the  -geccral  character  of  the  I)ukc  of  York,  but  are  we  aeon  the  honour  of  that  Prince,  to  conclude  or  to  decide  that  it  requires  noire  than  common  evi•  dence  to  convict  hint.  'With  all  Mrs.  Clarke's  imperfection  , STYLE=superscript  and  inconsistencies,  in  taking  a  fair  iew  of  the  pl:in  t  rat  h,  it  was  int intpoible  poible intpoible  to  find  such  contradictions  in  h  Riger  evidence,  a STYLE=superscript  :vl  w STYLE=superscript  ,..  i STYLE=superscript  inherore  1:;  the  ev  idences  of  Colonel  Gordon.  The  ht  lion.  for  Cambridgeshire  (Mr.  Yorke)  althotO  he  could  not  h;slieve  the  Note  relative  to  Major  Tonsil  to  be  %vrittett  by  the  Duke,  vet  could  believesuch  men  as  Sandpit  and  French  were  Mrs.  Clarke's  dupes.  Col.  Gordon  seemed  to STYLE=superscript  h  ave STYLE=superscript  been STYLE=superscript  brought  forward  as  the  gra  nd  stalking  )torse  of  office,  it  was  to  be  presumed.,  that  w  ever  he  said  was  to  be  bleu  in  a  favourable  light,  w  hile  that  which  fell  from  Mrs.  Clarke  was  to  be  construed  as  unfavour unfavourable.  able. unfavourable.  FAA  how  different  was  the  reception  of  Mrs.  ClarLe  She  was  treated  with  acrimony  and  insult,  and  denied  Cie  smallest  indulgence.  Her  character,  stilt  notwithstanding,  hail  shown  itself,  if  not  resplendant,  at  least  praist  .  In  the  case  of  Samuel  Carter,  if  generosity  was  to  be  ;t  aw_  huted,  the  praise  was  due  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  who  stepped  fort,  ard  to  further  t  t  he  ineres  of  an  humble  depeadent.  The  ronet  then  adverted  to  the  case  of  tor  o‘mem.,  nottrable  Ba  We  come  to  some  cases  that  arc  said  to  have  notshew  tohing-at  a STYLE=superscript  what  an  ll  to  do  with  Mrs.  Clarke;  hut  I  think  they  evidently  extent  Mrs.  Clack  's  influence  went.  It  weighed  heavily  upon  the  Duke,  and  chews  I.  picture  of  hypoctiqy  mu)  profligacy  united.—(  hen  hear  )  is  truly  revolting  to  propriety  mid;  decency.  W  these.  Gentlemen  were  for  setting  aside  the.  Whole  of  Mrs.  Clarke's  evidence  for  a  few,  what  they  called.  contradictio  ns, STYLE=superscript  which STYLE=superscript  were  pnimportauf  either  one  wav  or  the  other.  he  thought  it  hard.  She  offers  to  give  up  her  annuity  to  pay  her  debts.  but  that  annuity,  whun  applied  fac,  was  refused  by  the  Duke,  although  formerly  promised.  4.14  .4.  .  •  r  ~~}  .  4  .  •:,  I  ff)  lb  P5_TB00011 7H  1.9.  TUE  NATIONAL  UEGISTER.  11;1  1 STYLE=superscript  I  A  been  brought  forward  (meld  not  induce  him  to  con-  !  had  If  said  Mr.  Duneine  von  had  better  take  t  Mrs.  Clarke  had  any  influence  with  the  Commander  eo  •  the  worst  Counsellor  you  can  eet  it'  \ce  C:11:110  \  a  men  of  This  conclusion  was  so  preposterous,  that  he  tette  :  •  1  eenius  he  will  be  hampered  iv  iih  it,  but  a  lee'  Coue  seem  . STYLE=superscript  e  ill  eonet  believed  the  Right  llon.  Gentleman)  stood  alonei  tl  not  stop  upon  :me  point,  for  he  o  ill  eo  on  without  ;  re  , STYLE=superscript  ine,  aed  ;pinion,  but  however  improbable  his  opinion  might  be,  1 STYLE=superscript  11  by  using  lIIMIV  l;nrds,  have  the  appltrauce  of  ma  k  i'lle  a  greet  have  no  improper  weight  with  the  House.  Mrs.  defer  (  l'lcar  !h-ar  :1  An:l  so,  in  the  tcresect  11  - STYLE=superscript  seance,  the  by  the  Right  Honourable  Gentleman,  had  heeu  as  it  were  defence  made  by  that  Learned  Counsellor  oppesito  liar..  I  eon-  F  100  ho:tmit.  When  she  fi  rst  appeared  at  the  Bar,  fess,  given  me  a  very  strong  im  e  cession  as  to  the  depth  of  his  ,  •  unfileourabte  impressian  s  as  inede  on  the  iniods  of  her  understandine  ,  and  it  puts  me  in  mite:  o!'en  ass,  eho  o  ill  reiect  I  i  t  from  her  situation  in  life;  but  on  her  proceedine  in  her  the  choicest  food  for  the  seta-  of  eniov  lug  a  feast  ;rpm:  I  ilisites  ;  I  i  !  the  impression  became  of  a  different  nature.  She  came  ur  of  ehiiitn  in  The  Pilg..ints  l'eurt.s,  will),  v+  hen  lie  oas  ruder  peculiar  dieldvantages,  hothefrom  her  known  in  the  slough  of  Depond,  h  aul(  to  leave  his  travelling  companiou  !it  and  situation,  and  very  little  dependence,  if  any,  in  the  unel,  ae  the  I.earne  ientleman  had  left  his  (lit  nt,  tlie  1.  teed  on  her  testimony;  and  as  she  went  on,  however,  Duke  of  Vork,  and  out  of  which  all  the  Anti-duo:ties  ie  tee.  irettinstances  occurred,  and  such  a  system  unra-  land  would  not  be  able  to  extricate  hiut.  t  ;bete  !I.  !  .car!)  as  no  human  ineenuity  could  have  fabricated.  The  1  That  same  Learned  Centleman,  Inwards  the  couelesiou  of  his  ,1'  y  General,  too,  was  completely  thwarted  in  all  his  I  speech,  seemed  to  express  a  great  doubt  as  to  the  hand-  us,  for  if  he  had  discovered  the  slightest  error  in  her  1 STYLE=superscript  writiug  of  the  note  about  Capt.  Touvn  ;  for,  after  it  hod  le  NI  I  t  or  demeanour,  tic  would  have  overturned  all  her  ev  i-  proveii  by  the  hest  of  evidence,  the  worst  was  brought  fors%  aid  1  Ile  had  heaped  hypothesis  upon  it  pothesie,  surmise  to  rebut  the  best,  and  sae  boldly  calls  it  a  forgery,  because  Mr,.  ettnise,  and  had  drawn  inferen  ce STYLE=superscript  u STYLE=superscript  p  on STYLE=superscript  inference,  hut  had  1  Clarke  had  stated  that  s  he STYLE=superscript  could STYLE=superscript  write STYLE=superscript  very STYLE=superscript  like STYLE=superscript  the  Duke  of  en  unable  to  gain  his  point.  Mrs.  Clarke, STYLE=superscript  he STYLE=superscript  said, STYLE=superscript  was  I  ark.  But  with  all  his  ability  h  e STYLE=superscript  was STYLE=superscript  unable STYLE=superscript  to STYLE=superscript  prove  the  i  t  igy  of  art  ;eel  invention.  The  evidence  upon  the  whole  tal  Mrs.  ClarTk  hi  e STYLE=superscript  s  had  ever  ob  astained  a STYLE=superscript  n  y STYLE=superscript  ua  ii STYLE=superscript  itblmice  C  by  titl  he STYLE=superscript  ei  r STYLE=superscript  a  e STYLE=superscript  n  was  xtreorpleasedinat  v  d  toil  as  the  nature  of  the  case  would  admit  ;.and  there  ent.  Harpy,  the  Ile  n  .  he  most  reasonable  grounds  to  admit,  that  the  most  cur-  to  call  her,  w  hen  she  got  motley,  invariably  paid  it  to  ;or  itleence  existed,  and  it  was  observable  to  any  common  needy  tradesmen,  and  when  she  was  importunate  with  tile  .  teat  Mrs.  Clarke  was  making  a  tool  of  his  Royal  High-  Duke  of  'York,  it  was  on  account  of  the  poor  persons  to  ;  1  n  order  to  answer  her  own  purposes,  and  this  was  the  w  ham  she  was  in  debt.  It  appeared,  indeed,  from  all  the  ravourahle  construction  that  could  pnioihly  he  put  on  collateral  eircumstauces,  that  there  was  m  ater  a  witness  who  had  tt  so  improper;  and  the  evidence  was  so  strong,  that  not  substantiated  her  evidence  in  the  most  ial  points.  There  7,  tunded  to  the  eternal  shame  of  his  leoyal  Highness,  and  never  was  a  witness  more  fearless,  and  the  evidence  wns  so  cir-  to  any  other  man  he  considered  as  eisgrriceful  in  the  e  x  -  etunstantial,  that  it  mould  he  adraitted  •in  any  court  of  justice,  ~;  .;  The  lion  Gentlemen  of  the  lung  robe,  the  Learned  Gen-  vi  ithout  a  moment's  hesitating.  The  Learned  Gentlemen  la  ,  1  pay.  that  the  evidence  of  -ert.  Clarke  i:  not  admissible,  alloptieg  this  cau,e,  seemed  to  have  lost  all  their  ability.  They  -.  ,  1  401  .:  i  .  S STYLE=superscript  (  ' STYLE=superscript  -',...  lien  her  testimony  is  supported  by  other  witnesses,  whose  seemed  to  think  Mrs.  Clerke  a  n  itch,  and  from  t  h  e  potter  of  her  Leers  said  t  o  .inipeached,  for  instance,  b  y  the  testimony  of  enchantinent,  conceived  it  was  not  at  all  Wm:  ;erful  the  Duke  ray  lor,  wlt  certainly  was  a  Inost  reetpeetahle  witness,  how  a  - STYLE=superscript  York  should  have  been  seduced  by  her  spell::  but  w  ith  all  ,ee.  -...1  . STYLE=superscript  a  doubt  exist?  Merely  front  her  not  knowiug  on  a  ref-  their  hypothesis  they  were  unable  to  form  any  conclusion  favor-  A  .  .  0  , STYLE=superscript  ay  when  a  MikiOt  is  aS  appointed.  The  Rie,:a  lion.  Gentle-  able  to  themselves.  'f  hey  could  look  at  the  noon-duy  -sun  autti  ,e,  -'-e-';  ~  time  Chancellor  of  the  Ex.chequer)  said  first,  that  \1  is,  Levis  over  the  most  palpable  and  incontrovertible  ttuths,  but  ..  el:  i  .  ...  etc  tr  ought  not  to  be  believed  ;  nobodv  knew  ruby;  ami  duel  would  stoop  in  the  musky  mist  to  pick  up  straws,  and  catch  id  deavoured  to  explain  away  his  words,  by  stating,  that  she  trifles  light  as  air  to  support  Weir  sinking  cause.  Truth  to  a  •it  :  1  his  Royal  Highness  had  used  certtlie  ex  pressions,  each  as,•  lawyer  is  like  red  rag  to  a  viper,  at  which  he  star,  arid  ex-  ;  tiv  tines  he  use  eott,  Darling  which  were  applicable  tracts  the  -fine  from  the  envenomed  gums.  It  is  a  pteinfel  and  ;  e  caw.  she  had  to  prove  only,  hut  could  not  recollect  any  unpleasant  consideration  to  think  on  one  side  we  have  es  idetice  •  •  I  port  of  the  conversation  which  might  tend  to  the  which  gees  to  the  fullest  extent  in  support  of  the  alleged  de  lion  of  some  other  point  ;  and  this  want  of  recollection  minality,  while  on  the  other  band  vie  have  the  letter  of  the  Ilieht  Honourable  (ieotleolan  asserted,  was  a  ground  for  Duke  of  York,  dene  int..;  the  facts  so  clearly  proved.  What  l.  di  .belief.  In  answer  to  this  arettment  it  might  be  asked,  difference  is  there  between  the  evidence  of  Mrs.  Clarke  and  Mr.  fitter,  it'  two  persons  f  e  lt  inclined  to  conspire  t  e  :ether,  they  - STYLE=superscript  Adams.  There  is  no  distinction  as  witnesses,  the  one  is  as  good  •  e  id  not  make  their  race  strong  enough  to  prove  all  they  might  as  the  other.  An  appeal  is  made  to  the  -general  character  of  i  to  maintain  ?  And  not  by  a STYLE=superscript  lame STYLE=superscript  and STYLE=superscript  unfinished STYLE=superscript  story,  the  Duke  of  York,  but  are  we  upon  the  honoer  of  that  Prince,  ..  ect  themselves  to  detect  ioe.  A  Learned  Judge  (Mr.  Burton)  to  conclude  or  to  decide  that  it  requires  more  than  common  evi.  also  endeavoured  to  destroy  the  evidence  of  Mrs.  Clarke,  hut  deuce  to  convict  him.  With  all  Mrs.  Clarkes  .  imperfection  , STYLE=superscript  and  ,  i  . STYLE=superscript  .i  not  produced  a  sitle  argument  against  her  credibility,  ex-  inconsistencies,  in  taking  a  fair  N  iew  of  the  onsntroth,  it  Was  im-  %„.  t  her  character  as  ellOneete:t  with  the  Duke.  The  Learned  possible  to  fi  nd  such  contradictions  in  her  evidence,  as  were  i:;  the  lge  had  asserted,  that  Mrs.  Clarke  had  contradicted  herself  in  evidence  of  Colonel  Gordon.  The  Right  II  on.  :O.:  for  course  of  her  testineety  tli  elli  V.C  . STYLE=superscript  P4h  t  times,  and  from  the  Cambridgeshire  (Mr.  'Yorke)  althoiteh  he  could  net  l'  itt STYLE=superscript  '  er STYLE=superscript  e  the  wn  ability  of  the  Learned  Judgo,  he  had  listened  with  con-  Note  ►relative  to  Major  Tonyn  to  be  vvritiett  by  the  Duke,  eet  e-able  at  teuti  on  and  anxiety  for  the  proofs  of  that  averment,  could  believe•such  men  as  Sandpit  and  French  o  ere  Mrs.  Clarke';  he  had  i  sited  in  vain,  although  lie  would  have  been  ready  dupes.  Col.  Gordon  seemed  to  'lave  been  brought  forward  as  the  admit,  whout  hesitation,  that  such  cootradietion  would  grand  stalking  )torse  of  office,  it  was  to  be  presumed.,  that  w  het  taiel  ygo  meterially  to  discredit  her  evidence.  One  around  ever  be  said  was  to  be  tad  in  a  favourable  light,  while  that  the  disbelief  'of  tier  testimony  Wil`  4 STYLE=superscript  ,  her  not  having  recollected  which  ell  rom  M.  Clarke  was  to  be  construed  as  uttfev  our-  arly  circumstances  whit  h  had  occurred  four  Years  and  a  half  able.  liut  how  different  was  the  reception  of  Mrs.  (  larLe  e  and  her  having  asserted  that  she  had  not  told  Mr.  Knight  to  She  was  treated  with  acrimony  and  insult,  and  denied  Cie  .  1  ..  ;  ,  ~,  ;'l. STYLE=superscript  i  t  t  secret  brain  elle  Duke  the  transaction  relative  W  his  ex-  smallest  indulgence.  Her  character,  not  wit  hstand  ing,  ha  •  d  tnee.  It  was  fair,  however,  to  recollect,  that  the  assertion  still  shown  itself,  if  not  resplendant,  at  least  prais;  -iv  ertle  .  „  Is  made  on  both  sides,  and,  that  the  veracity  of  each  was  In  the  case  of  Samuel  Carter,  if  generosity  is  as  to  be  awe,.  nail  v  entitled  to  credit.  Miss  Taylor's  evidence  was  likewise  bided,  the  praise  was  due  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  who  stepped  fore  erd  ;credited,  because  she  could  not  telt  whether  her  father  was  to  further  the  interests  of  an  humble  depeudeot.  The  Vie-  .  lied  Chance  or  Taylor,  but  he  conceived  her  as  complete  and  'utterable  Baronet  the  ;Averted  to  the  case  Of  pr  o‘Mem.,.  creditable  a  witness  as  had  appeared  at  the  Bar.  Vhere  was  We  coine  to  some  cztscs  that  arc  said  to  have  nothingett  ll  to  do  I  lion.  Member  who  spoke  early  iu  this  dehaie.  I  beg  pardon,  with  Mrs.  Clarke;  think  they  evidently  she  w  Coat  hat  an  .....  must  call  him  a  Learned  Gentleman,  for  he  is  His  Niajesty's  extent  Mrs.  Clad:es  influence  wept.  it  weighed  heavily  upon  -.;  ttorney-Grneral;  to  whom  I  listened  with  the  greatest  anew.  the  Dulte,  and  shews  a  picture  of  hypocr;sy  :Intl  profligacy  fil  on  ;  and  although  I  never  had  al  opportunity  Of  knowing  him,  united  .--B  lear  !  hear!  )It  is  truly  revolting  to  eroprirty  end;  ..,  .  did  expect  that  he  would  have  Stilted  some  luminous  Volutes  .  decency.  When  these.  Gentlemen  were  for  setting  aside  the.  .  .  one  elucidation  of  the  case  ;  but  how  have  we  been  disappoint-  whole  of  M.  Clarke's  eeideece  for  a  few,  w:hat  il!ey  called.  contradictions,  which  were  un,importaut  et  .  ther  one  11:  Sir,  I  remember  haying  heard  of  a  great  Law  vele  a  Mr.  )unning,  who,  on  being  asked  by  a  Client  way  he  thought  it  bard.  She  offers  to  give  up  her  whun  applied  foie  to  recoMmentl  him  or  the  other.  e  a  C  o  unsellor  the  most  proper  for  his  ease,  asked  him  what  antetity  to  pa)  her  debts.  but  that  alleuitY  , STYLE=superscript  J:  he  persrrif  applyln  - STYLE=superscript  luswered  66 STYLE=superscript  it  is  3  Yere  your  eilAt:  ,  I  ,  .  3  •  a  was  refuied  by  the  Duke,  although  formerly  promised.  4q  .4."
