text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  stitution  ;  and  if  a  prince  had  disinterested  advisers,  he  would  have  long  since  received  from  them  the  salutary  and  constitu constitutional  tional constitutional  counsel  to  submit,  with  deference  and  alacrity  to  those  regulations  and  forms  which  hind  every  other  inetnber  of  the  community.  The  Commons,  we  trust,  will  not  forget  their  otvn  dignity,  the  responsibility  of  their  situation,  and  the  ditties  they  owe  their  constituents.  They,.  it  is  to  be  hoped,  will  watch  vigilantly  over  the  maintain:  wee  of  the  laws,  and  confound,  by  their  im impartiality  partiality impartiality  and  iodependence,  the  opponents  of  the  present  esta establishment.  blishment. establishment.  Their  conduct,  at  the  commencement  of  the  inquiry  gives  every  reason  to  conclude  that  they  will  remain  consequent  to  the  last;  and  as  they  expressed  so  much  satisfaction  at  the  motion  of  Mr.  WA  ROLE,  as  their  triumph  was  so  loud  that  theseaccusations  were  brought  forward  in  a  tangible  shape,  they  w  ill  convince  the  country  of  the  sincerity  of  their  effusions,  byre byrecommending  commending byrecommending  the  only  issue  which  is  left  the  accwed  to  use  the  benefit  and  as  his  Royal  Highness  demands,  of  those  sanctions,  under  which  alone  evidence  is  received  in  the  ordinary  administration  of  the  NVe  have  considered  the  subject  as  yet  as  only  relating  to  the  Commander  in  Chiefof  the  Army,  without  the  slightest  referetice  to  him  as  Prince  of  the  Blood.  Should  we  iak  •up  the  matter  in  this  light,  it  becomes  more  serious  and  important.  The  whole  transaction  immediately  assumes  a  greater  degree  of  interest  ;  and  what  we  may  be  inclined  to  palliate  in  the  former,  we  dare  not  excuse  in  the  latter  character.  It  then  becomes  a  subject  of  inquiry  whether  a  member  of  the  Royal  Family  is  amenable  to  the  same  laws  as  every  other  individual  in  the  country?  Whe Whether  ther Whether  he  has,  in  that  capacity,  any  distinct  privileges  which  secure  him  from  responsibility,  or  insure  him  iinpuniti  in  ease  of  delinquency  ?  We  believe  the  Constitution  admits  of  to  such  distinction;  but  supposes  every  man  who  tills  an  eflicial  situation,  as  responsible  for  the  manner  in  which  he  discharges  it.  It  is  from  an  apprehension  that  any  plea  of  this  kind.  might  he  set  up,  that  an  appearance  of  acri acrimony  mony acrimony  and  bias  mixed  itself  in  the  judgments  of  the  Public.  —  They  began,  from  the  very  beginning,  to  cnnsider  it  as  an  issue  aright  between  a  number  of  the  Royal  Family  and  the  people  of  Great  Britain,  and,  for  fear  of  a  dangerous  and  unconstituti unconstitutional  onal unconstitutional  precedent,  anxiously  insisted  on  the  urgency  of  a  strict  and  legal  investigation.  There  was  no  bias,  no  partiality  divlayed  against  the  individual  ;  but  all  that  jealousy  and  distrust,  pe peculiar  culiar peculiar  to  a  free  people  were  manifested,  lest  the  accused  should  harbour  any  pretensions,  as  son  of  the  Sovereign,  inconsistent  with  the  spirit  of  the  constitution  and  the  equality  of  our  laws.  This  pertinacious  adherence,  on  the  part  of  the  Public  to  a  rigid  maintenance  of  their  rights,  proves  them  deserving  of  the  freedom  they  enjoy;  and  that  every  member  of  the  community  is  equally  amenable  to  the  laws  is  the  highest  triumph  of  poli political  tical political  philosophy.  We  have  considered  the  conduct  of  his  Royal  Highness  only  in  a  political  point  of  view  ;  and  not  in  a  moral  one.  We  have  not  adverted  to  the  indecency  and  profligacy  of  a  married  man,  filling  one  of  the  highest  ostensible  situations  in  the  country,  liv living  ing living  publicly  with  a  concubine,  and  expending  immense  sums  for  her  establishment,  whilst  thousands  of  honest  industrious  fami families  lies families  in  the  manufacturing  towns  were  literally  starving.  Ile  dis disca:ded  ca:ded disca:ded  her  at  last,  but  not  from  a  convictiou  of  the  irregularity  of  his  conduct,  or  from  a  sense  of  the  indecent  example  he  fur furnished  nished furnished  ;  but  from  satiety  ;  for  he  immediately  associated  w  itli  another  woman,  whom  he  stipported  at  the  same  immoderate  expence  ;  not  reflecting  that  the  sums  he  expended  on  so  despic despicable  able despicable  an  object,  might  have  clothed  and  educated  500  destitute  children.  What  a  godlike  sensation  to  a  liberal,  generous,  and  feeling  mind  must  an  expenditure  of  the  latter  description  have  afforded  !  These  are  gratifications  for  a  feeling.  heart,  for  a  princely  mind  !  and  how  contemptible.,  how  trimeon-;  mist  be  the  mere meretricious  tricious meretricious  'miles  of  a  harlot,  wilco  compared  ‘sitig  the  plum:tire  of  rrill.  26.  relieving  indigence  and  drying  the  tear  of  affliction!  What  are  his  Royal  Highness's  pretensions  to  bur  gratiude  and  veneration  in  this  respect?  Providence  has  placed  him  on  a  very  exalted  station,  where  he  might  be  the  benefactor  of,  and  a  paten'  to  millionst  how  contemptible  are  the  allurements  of  pleasure,  the  gay  frolic  of  the  convivial  board,  the  soft  enticements  of  in indolence,  dolence, indolence,  and  the  wild  enjoyments  of  a  licentious  appetite,  com compared  pared compared  to  the  divine  satisfaction  arising  from  a  rigid  performance  of  duty  !  ale  has  it  unquestionably  in  his  power  to  render  great  and  permanent  services,  as  well  by  example  as  action  ;  and  what  an  irresistible  appeal  must  that  he  to  the  feelings  of  a  man  (a  title  much  more  significant  than  that  of  Peince  1)  to  tell  him  that  his  individual  exertions  might  contribute  to  the  happiness  andmorality  of  millions  !  Ilis  example  might  operate  like  elec.  tricity  ;  and  the  people  of  this  country  would  enthusiastically  place  him  in  the  list  of  their  heroes  and  patriots,  instead  of  as associating  sociating associating  his  name,  as  they  do  now,  with  wretches,  like  Al  ts  .  Clatike,  Sancho),  and  Donovan.  NOTICES  OF  ROYALTY.  isest  men  Have  err'd,  and  by  had  women  been  deceiv'd  ;  And  shall  again,  pretend  they  ne'er  so  wise  !  Milton's  4 STYLE=superscript  SUMSO7B  DUKE  OF  YORK.  Frtrnertrem,  Duke  of  York  and  Albany  in  Great  Britain,  and  Earl  Zif  Ulster  in  Ireland,  is  the  second  son  of  their  pre present  sent present  Majesties.  Ile  was  born  on  the  16th  of  August,  in  the  year  176.3  ;  exactly  four  days  after  the  birth  of  his  eldest  brother  daring  the  preceding  year.  Always  beloved  by  his  All:'11St  Parent,  the  Duke  of  York  succeNted  rapid rapidly  ly rapidly  to  the  honours  and  dignities  which  have  been  conferred  upon  him;  and  which  virtually,  though  not  actually,  coo coo%tante  %tante coo%tante  him,  as  one  of  our  representatives  in  parliament,  is  stated  to  have  called  him,  no  less  than  the  second  person personage  age personage  in  this  kingdom.  lie  has  proved,  indeed,  that  respon responsibility  sibility responsibility  and  authority  are  inseparable.  Scarcely  had  his  Royal  Highness  completed  his  fourth  year,  when,  on  the  death  of  the  Great  Duke  of  Cumber Cumberland,  land, Cumberland,  he  was  appointed  to  succeed  him  as  Grand-Master  and  First  Knight-Compaction  of  the  Order  of  the  Bath.  He  obtained  the  Order  of  the  Garter  in  the  year  1771.  He  was  raised  to  the  ran's:of  Colonel  in  the  army  in  1760;  and  on  the  decease  of  Lord  Amherst,  about  1799,  his  Royal  Highness  was  finally  entrusted  with  the  high  post  of  Com Commander  mander Commander  in  Chief  of  the  British  Army.  lie  had  previously  enjoyed  all  the  supposed  advantages  of  military  education,  both  at  home  and  abroad  ;  while,  by  the  active  part  which  he  hail  taken,  during  the  early  stages  of  the  revolution,  against  the  enemies  of  this  country,  he  was  understood  to  have  become  practically,  as  well  as  theoretically,  ac acquainted  quainted acquainted  with  his  professional  duties.  (If  the  military  character  of  this  Prince,  it  is  not  easy  to  speak  with  precision  and  intelligence.  With  the  best  pos possible  sible possible  intentions  to  serve  his  country,  his  exertions,  it  w  i  ll  hardly  be  denied,  have  been  singularly  unsuccessful  ;  and  have,  very  unauspiciously  for  the  country  as  well  as  un unhappily  happily unhappily  for  himself,  created  such  prepossessions  as  seem  completely  to  preclude  him  from  attempting  to  retrieve  his  military  reputation,  and  from  establishing,  as  other otherwise  wise otherwise  he  possibly  might,  his  character.  Singular  though  the  opinion  may  appear.  to  others,  I  confess  myself  to  be  one  of  those,  who,  from  conclusions  which  cannot  be  soon  made  obvious  to  the  many,  regret  that  the  Duke  of  York,  notwithstanding  his  former  reverses,  was  not  permitted  to  have  commanded  the  forces  lately  sent  from  this  country  to  the  assistance  of  Portugal.  His  elevated  rank,  so  exactly  suited  to  the  views  or  our  new  ailies,  %%  0111(1  have  excited  all  the  admiration  in  which  they  ho;d  legitimate  supremacy  ;  while,  on  the  other  hand,  it  is  im  possible  to  qucstiou  the  aiaiuty  vtili  which  hi:  'Loyal  41i•"
