text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  ---•  my  duly  and  conscience  only  which  induce  me  to  mount  the  throne,  AND  NOT  MY  OWN  PRIVATE  INCLINA•  . STYLE=superscript  TIONI.  I  am  Filiting  to  sacrifice  my  own  happiness,  be 'be'  cause  f  think  you  have  need  of  me,  Jro  the  tv:!chlissiw,.t  , STYLE=superscript  ;:  These  sentiments  were  either  suggeste,!  the  most  blasphemouti  hypocrisy;  or  were  torn  from  ai,  excruciated  conscience,  and  a  trembling,  dastardly  heart,  appalled  by  the  fierce  and  indignant  glances  of  the  out outraged  raged outraged  citizens,  and  fearing  in  every  hand,  and  under  ever!.  mantle,  the  steel  of  . STYLE=superscript  a  murderer.  The  anxiety  of  tlu•  wretch  might  hive  extorted  this  semblance  of  generosity,  and  stamped  sincerity  on  hip  effusions  for  the  moment;  b;it  it  was  the  repentance  and  promised  amendment  of  a  culprit  cau4ht  in  the  very  - STYLE=superscript  act  of  pilfering  ;  and  wi!.o  say  in  ever  bye-stander  an  instrument  of  punishment.  After  the  Mass  he  returned  in  the  same  order,  and  a  salute  of  a  hundred  gams  announced  his  entrance  into  the  `Palace.  At  night  there  was  a  general  was  repeated  on  the  two  f  o  ll  ow  in  nights.  On  the  '24i  It  a  circular  was  addressed  to  the  Archbishops  and  lt4hops  of  his  kingdom,  in  which  JOSEPH  employed  the  'mole  *disgusting  clang  ol'disinterested  motives,  attachment  to  the  Spaniards,  a  desire  to  heal  their  wounds  :  and  then  concludes  by  de desiring  siring desiring  theni  to  return  thanks  to  Goo  for  the  success  which  he  has  been  pleased  to  grant  to  the  arms  of  hi  august  brother,  the  powerful  Emperor  of  the  French,  wh..  has  had  no  other  view  than  to  give  the  Spaniards  a  lasting  peace  and  Oh  yes  !  the  victims,  his  rapa  Oty  and  insatiable  ambition  have  murdered,  enjoy  Ihe  peace  of  the  grave,  and  an  independence  beyond  the  reach  of  4  tyrant.  But  the  fate  of  those,  who  have  survived,  is  dis distinctly  tinctly distinctly  marked  by  a  decree  of  Jan.  fifth,  which  orders  that  p.  special  Military  Tribunal  shall  be  formed  to  try  all  re recruiters,  cruiters, recruiters,  and  alt  who  enter  into  the  enemy's  service,  By  this  decree  every  man  who  takes  up  arms  against  Kiel;  JOSEPN  shall  he  shot,  and  every  recruiter  hanged.  Thea:!  arc  the  first  blessings  of  his  auspicious  and  paternal  reign  ;  add  as  soon  as  he  has  organised  his  system  orexpionage,  when  all  the  bonds  of  neighbourhood  and  the  ties  of  consangui consanguinity  nity consanguinity  are  rent  asunder;  whet)  brother  will  be  distrustful  of  brother,  and  friend  of  friend;  then  the  Spaniards  will  en enjoy,  joy, enjoy,  in  full  measure,  some  of  the  advantages  possessed  1)  the  Brabanters,  French,  &amp;e.  But  the  AMP  of  their  poli political  tical political  happiness  will  be  attained,  whets  they   the  conscrip conscription  tion conscription  introduced,  and  their  youth  torn  from  the  shriekie...l.,  elistracted  mothers,  and  dragged  with  their  fettered  hand  ,  tied  to  the  tail  of  a  Gendarme's  horse,  to  the  Banks  oft  he  Vistula,  or  the  Mountains  of  fight  the  battles,  and  promote  the  criminal  projects  of  a  stranger,  whom  they  have  so  much  cause  to  abhor,  These  Papers  also  contain  the  thirty-second  Bulletin.  It  contains  an  account  of  the  surrender  of  Ferrol,  and  the  capture.  of  the  fleet  in  the  harbour.  This  Bulletin  moat()  make  those  unthinking  personS  in  this  country  blush,  if  they  were  capable  of  that  sensation,  who  fill  their  loathsome  Columns  with  unfounded  calumnies  against  the  great  mass  of  the  Spanish  population.  The  enemy  himself  is  forced  to  do  an  involuntary  homage  to  their  patriotism  and  vif viftnre,  tnre, viftnre,  by  delaring  that  the  most  determined  resistance  was  made  by  the  inhabitants  of  Ferrol  ;  and  that  it  was  the  treachery  of  the  higher  order,  the  base  dereliction  of  the  constituted  authorities,  which  placed  the  city,  the  arsenals  aria  shipping  in  the  power  of  the  invaders.  This  Bulletin  terminates  with  the  groisest  abuse  of  the  English  army  and  nation,  and  hon  Ours  them  with  the  most  rancorous  elrusions  of  enmity.  Immediately  after  the  capture,  MA MAZAREDOI  ZAREDOI MAZAREDOI  one  of  those  traitors  who  first  attached  themselves  to  the  fortunes  of  the  usurper,  and  now  fills  the  office  of  Minister  of  Marine,  was  ordered  to  repair  to  Ferrol,  in  anger  to  put  the  Marine  there  into  the  mnst  .  ilourishing  state.  Our  provident  and  vigilent  Ministers  will  be  able  to  account  we  trust,  to  the  nation  at  large.  and  particularly  to  Ire Ireland,  land, Ireland,  why  means  were  not  taken  to  prevent  so  important  A  fleet  and  arsenals  falling  into  the  hands  of  the  enemy.  ,  •  •  0.  l,:i  ;  It  was  reported  on  Vridav  night  that  the  'French  Fleet  in  ilasque  ;loads  had  been  captured  by  our  squadron  ;  but  no  inch  novice  has  been  officially  received.  The  fOliowing  •.re  the  only  authentic  particulars  that  have  yet  been  rc.  coived  gi STYLE=superscript  RMM  Orr  ItOCIIEFOILT.  The  Naiad  frigate,  of  Flll  brings  intelligence  of  the  French  sqstadron,  of  eie,lit  sail  of  Ow  line,  awl  two  frigate's,  be-  Hz  seen  on  Friday  meaning  ?  the  24th  ult.  at  day-light,  btanditig  utu  Basque  Roads.  The  Naiad  was  ordered  to  proceed  in  quest  of  the  Channel  fleet,  and  communicate  to  Lord  Gambier  the  situation  of  thife  squadron,  and  that  of  the  enemy's  course,  rc.  and  she  bore  I!)  aecordingly  with  a  ure4,  of  sail.  Bs  half-past  seven  o'clock,  the  enemy  9 STYLE=superscript  P  gqiiiifirqp  !lOVe  to  iet  Rasque  (toads,  and  b..!'ore  eight  o'clock  five  strange  sail  were  •een  hearing  at  N.  N.  W  who  tint  answering  the  given  signal  , STYLE=superscript  .  immediately  announced  to  the  Cie  , STYLE=superscript  tir  they  were  enemies;  our  •quadron  then  bore  up,  anti  chased  the  enemy  in  the  N.  N.  W.  tiptil  the  signal  of  reeal  was  made..  by  the  Ciesar  ;  then  hauled  our  ind,  and  stenod  towards  our  squadron.  Soon  after  nine  we  found  the  strange  ships  to  be  three  French  frigates,  chased  by  his  Majesty's  ship  Amelia  and  Dotterel!  gun.  brig.  Made  sail  to  the  N.  and  little  after  tem  the  enemy's  .rates  took  shelter  under  the  batteries  of  Sable  d'Olonne,  where  they  were  soon  attacked  by  the  C;esar,  Donegal,  Defiance,  Emerald,  Amethyst,  and  Amelia.  A  continual  fire  was  kept  up  for  near  two  hours,  when  it  ceased.  The  Naiad  nt  this  time  at  considerable  distance,  could  met  pee.sibly  know  the  result  of  the  Letion  ;  hut  no  doubt  eau  he  entertained  of  their  having  taken  or  destroyed  the  enemy,  By  one  o'clock  spoke  the  Alcmene,  and  pointed  nut  the  situation  of  the  enemy.  Before  four  the  squad.  roil  under  Captain  Beresford's  orders  passed,  consisting  of  feiur  -.•  il  of  the  line,  and  the  Indefatigaolu  frigate.  Captain  Beres:  3  . STYLE=superscript  ord  gave  information  that  the  enemy's  squadron  had  escaped  from  L'Orient,  and  concluded  them  to  be  ves  s  el:  just  attacked,  De  then  directed  his  course  for  Admiral  Stopford's  squadron,  of  which  he  was  nearly  in  sight.  On  the  follow  lit;,;  day  the  Naiad  fell  in  with  the  Cuckoo  -chooner,  anti  learnt,  tltat  Sir  .1.  Duck  orlh's  squadron  could  not  he  at  any  great  distance,  she  therefore  returned  to  the  squa squadron  dron squadron  to  give  the  inforp:ation  received  by  the  Nui7oi,  6 STYLE=superscript  6 STYLE=superscript  Enemy's  Parer  in  Ila,lne  llusad.—One  3-decker,  ten  2-deck 2-deckers,  ers, 2-deckers,  one  50-gun  ship,  and  Tour  frio'es.  .it  Sable  0  tonni—Thrce  frig.‘.!es.  British  Force  with  3lopford—Thrce  sail  of  the  line,  tour  frigates,  and  one  brig.  _  With  Captain  BPreil'ord,  cnd  nearly  in  ~  i STYLE=superscript  ght  of  Admire  Siop,fird—Four  sal!  (i)?  the  I  hie,  am!  One  frigate.  A  mqng  thp  extraordinary  phenomena  of  the  present  age,  so  fertile  in  revolutions,  political  and  national,  may  he  justly  reckoned  the  formation  of  a  new  empire,  and  the  introduction  of  European  civilization,  into  the  re remote  mote remote  islands  scattered  over  the  vast  expanse  pf  the  IV  cilic  Ocean.  We  are  assured  that  Tallama,  t,  hie  C,  or  Sovereign,  of  the  Island  of  0-wy-hee,  one  of  the  Sand.  wich  group,  or  Archipelago,  so  well  known  in  the  rela relations  tions relations  of  our  circumnavigators,  has  not  only  subjected  to  bis  dominion  the  surrounding  . STYLE=superscript  islands,  but  is  actively  .miployed  in  extending  his  power  on  every  side.  This  Chieftain,  the  Bonaparte  of  the  Pacific,  though  he  can  neither  write  nor  read,  is,  nevertheless,  endowed  with  distinguished  abilities,  energy,  aad  ambition.  ,Nnul.  hers  of  British  and  of  French  renegadoes,  or  desertciA,  arc  employed  in  facilitating  his  projects  of  cohlitierce  and  of  conquest.  Already,  it  is  certain,  that  car carries  ries carries  on  a  - STYLE=superscript  trade  with  China,  with  sonic  of  the  dependen dependencies  cies dependencies  of  Japan,  with  the  •  Ladrone  Islands  and  ;  nor  is  it  doubted  that  he  will  soon  navigate  the  South  Sea  in  the  opposite  direction,  to  the  Western  shores  of  Mexico,  Peru,  and  Chili.  However  incredible  it  may  ap.  pear,  we  are  assured  that  he  possesses  a  marine,  consist,  mo.of  nine  vessels  ;  among  which  are  two,  armed  and  cu cur.`  r.` cur.`  per-bottomed.  Tahama,  it  is  believed,  will  subject  t  he  Society  and  Friendly  islands,  as  well  as  many  of  the  others  in  that  quarter  of  the  globe.  Wheel  we  reflect  on  the  geo geographical  graphical geographical  position  of  the  Sandwich  Islands,  placed  as  •it  were  1.o).  nature,  to  connect  America  with  Aiia;•  and  com com  - com  ai-g  •  t  i•  ' STYLE=superscript  IA-  •"
