text
"FiISHIONS  FOR  GENTLEMEN.  The  prevailing  colours  are  dark  brown  and  bottle  green.  The  coat  for  eveningdress  is  cut  rather  long  in  the  waist,  and  short  in  the  skirts,  double  breasted,  with  pointed  lappets,  corresponding  is  length  to  the  hip  button;  the  lappets  are  padded  to  fall  back  with  the  collar,  which  is  made  pretty  high  and  stitched  narrow,  the  collar  to  fall  back  about  an  inch  and  an  half,  deep  pockets  ender  the  cross  flaps;  the  cuff's  round.  The  morning  coat  is  made  in  nearly  the  same  manner,  only  the  pockets  are  in  the  plaits  of  the  skirt,  and  the  cuffs  are  either  round  or  with  a  flat  and  three  buttons.  The  buttons  are  either  gilt  basket,  or  moulds  covered  with  cloth.—  Waistcoats  are  made  single  breasted,  with  a  small  flap  about  two  inches  lower  than  the  coat  lappel.—Breeches  are  not  made  so  high  by  two  or  three  inches  as  they  were,  and  the  knee-band  exteadiAlmost  to  the  calf  of.  the  leg,  with  four  buttot;.  at  the  knee;  they  are  made  very  tight,  and  pantaloons  ire  pretty  generally  ornamented  up  the  bides  with  brade.  GISTER.  JAN.  8.  Afr.  ay.  - STYLE=superscript  4  ' STYLE=superscript  7lll/.  POPULAR  PREACHERS.  No.  XXII.  When  that  your  Flock,  assembled  by  the  bell,  Encircle  3eti  ;  to  hear,  with  reverence,  Your  Expositiou  of  the  Holy  Text  !  SuAtismins.  REV.  ROBERT  HODGSON,  M.A.  OF  ST  )  N  EAR.  11.1NOVISR-5t211.1  RE..  NEW-YEAR'S  DAY,  was  this  year  a  doleful  day  in  most  of  our  parochial  churches.  The  joyous  ringing  Gf  the  bells,  instead  of  intimating  the  season  for  pious  gratula gratulation,  tion, gratulation,  awakened  thousands  of  the  good  and  liege  people  of  this  nation,  to  prepare  to  hear  nothing  less  important.  in  various  places  of  religious  worship,  than  funeral  sermons  It  is  customary,  on  the  commencement  of  a  new-year,  to  look  backwards  and  forwards,  to  take  a  bifronsic  survey  of  things  ;  to  consider  human  life  retrospectively,  as  well  as  prospectively.  I  am  far  from  wishing  to  discourage  thi3  salutary  species  of  reflection',  if  it  be  equitably  exerted.  Surely,  however,  it  is  neither  wise  or  kind  to  contemplate  chiefly  the  gloomy  aspect  of  affairs  ;  to  call  to  mind  only  the  miseries  we  have  experienced  or  the  judgments  we  have  deserved,  and  to  anticipate  future  disasters  and  punish punishments.  ments. punishments.  Our  piety  has  too  much  of  deprecatory  implora.  Von,  too  little  of  grateful  aspiration.  Praise  the  Lord,  0  my  Soul  excl;iined  the  royal  psalmist  ;  and  forget  not  all  His  We,  on  the  contrary,  are  always  .  praying  for  new  mercies;  while,  it  is  much  to  be  feared,  we  are  sufficiently  disposed  to  forget  the  benefits  we  have  so  bountifully  received.  Past  mercies,  howeler,  supply  as  good  an  incentive  to  piety  as  future  punishments.  Christi Christianity  anity Christianity  is  full  of  religious  encouragemet  t,  of  holy  confi confidence,  dence, confidence,  of  the  sublimest  exultation  of  if  there  be  any  such  thing  in  the  world  as  a  true  height  and  magnani magnanimity  mity magnanimity  of  spirit.'  finely  observes  Stillingileet,  in  the  Epistle  Dedicatory  of  his  Origines  Sacra.,  if  there  be  any  solid  reason  and  depth  of  judgment,  they  are  not  only  consistent  with,  but  only  attainable  by  a.true  generous  Spirit  cif  Reli 'Religion.'  Such  is  the  language  of  one,  who  nobly  exemplified  in  himself  the  inestimable  advantages  derivable  from  genuine.  religious  devotion.  I  come  now  to  speak  of  the  Divine  *hose  clerical  character  remains  to  be  investigated.  The  REV.  ROBERT  HODGSON  is  one  of  the  nephews  of  Mrs.  Porteous,  formerly  Miss  Hodgson,  the  respected  Lady  of  the  present  venerable  Bishop  of  London.  Be  is  from  Benet  College,  in  the  University  of  Cambridge.  Mr.  Hodgson  has  published  two  sermons;  one  preached  before  the  Corporation  of  the  Sons  of  the  Clergy,  and  another  ou  the  re-opening  of  St.  George's  Church,  of  which  he  is  now  the  Rector,  after  its  having  undergone  repairs.  He  owes  his  present  ecclesiastical  preferment  to  the  patronage  of  his  uncle.  Mr.  Hodgson  is  married,  and  has  several  chil children.  dren. children.  As,  however,  he  is  still  young  in  the  pulpit,  I  must  not  shrink  from  the  duty  of  explicitly  stating.  my  opinions  respecting  his  clerical  conduct  and  character.  While  there  is  room  for  improvement  in  his  preaching,  there  is  also  time  *for  him  to  effect  improvement.  His  person,  though  not  striking,  is  sufficiently  respect respectable.  able. respectable.  His  entrance  into  the  pulpit  is  unexceptionably  be becoining  coining becoining  ;  and  he  announces  his  text  with  a  precision  that  is  really  impressive,  and  an  earnestness  that  indicates  sinceri sincerity.  ty. sincerity.  Here,  it  is  far  from  gratifying  to  me  to  remark,  the  previous  conceptions  entertained  of  his  excellence  become  suddenly  and  painfully  disappointed.  The  elongated  em emphasis  phasis emphasis  that  constituted  him  a  good  reader,  now  renders  him  tiresome  as  a  preacher.  He  is  labouringly  senten sententious,  tious, sententious,  needlessly  magnificent,  noisily  monotonous.  His  voice  is  doubtless  manly;  but  he  forces  it  beyond  its  pro proper  per proper  pitch,  while  his  falling  tones  sink  infinitely  below  its  general  scope.  Respecting  his  style  of  composition,  I  cannot  do  better  than  refer  Mr.  Hodgson  to  the  judicious  hint  given  on  this  P12_TB00024 •"
