text
"178  TIIE  NATIONAL  REGISTER,  virtue.  It  is  unexpected  ;  but,  therefore,  the  more  daz dazxl:ng  xl:ng dazxl:ng  ;  and  assisted  by  the  artificial  heat  of  the  treasury  and  Lord  CASTLEREAGH'S  Office,  must  produce  a  growth  of  patriotism  which  may  tend  to  lessee  its  present  extiorbit extiorbitant  ant extiorbitant  price.  It  is  painful  to  reflect  that  Governments  never  grow  sen sensible  sible sensible  of  the  abuses  which  undermine,  and  threaten  to  sub subvert  vert subvert  them,  until  the  explosion  has  taken  place  ;  or  think  of  reforming  until  the  project  is  impracticable.  There  is  not  a  courtier,  a  placeinan,  or  an  ex-prince,  who  once  ,  rioted  in  the  corruption  which  overturned  the  thrones  oi  the  BOURBONS,  that  has  not  shed  many  an  unavailing  tear  at  the  folly  and  extravagance  of  his  former  conduct.  They  were  reminded  of  the  volcano  on  which  they  were  dancing,  singing,  feasting  with  their  parasites  and  mistresses;  but  they  laughed  at  the  absurdity  of  the  advice,  and  thought  Bicetre  a  fit  mansion  for  such  an  extravagant  wight  ;  or  corn cornplained  plained cornplained  of  the  licentiousness  of  the  press,  got  the  adviser  immured  in  the  dungeons  of  the  bastile.  They  continued  to  carouse  and  to  debauch  the  public  morals,  till  one  huge  explosion  swallowed  themselves,  the  Sovereign  and  coun country  try country  in  one  common  inexpressible  ruin.  We  did  exult  sincerely  and  ardently  in  the  investigation,  and  '  we  bestowed  our  most  unqualified  approbation  on  !tir.Wsit-  DLE  for  his  patriotism,  courage,  and  constitutional  indepen independence.  dence. independence.  His  example,  as  we  forsaw,  would  create  emulation  and  an  imitation  of  his  manly  conduct.  However  the  pub public  lic public  may  have  been  disappointed  in  the  result  of  the  proceed proceedings,  ings, proceedings,  they  affori  greater  cause  fit  triumph  than  depression.  The  accused  - STYLE=superscript  has  been  acquited,  and  we  bow  with  due  de deference  ference deference  to  the  decision;  but  when  we  reflect  on  the  number  of  respectable  Members  who  voted  for  Mr.  'WARDLE'S  ori original  ginal original  motion,  we  think  we  have havecause  cause havecause  to  congratulate  the  country,  that  it  possesses  124  individuals  in  the  list  of  its  Representatives  who  consider  its  interest  as  paramount  to  every  other  obligation.  Even  this  circumstance,  impor importaut  taut importaut  and  consolatory  as  it  is,  we  regard  as  a  secondary  con consideration,  sideration, consideration,  when  compared  with  the  salutary  impression  !  which  the  precedent  leaves  on  the  minds  of  the  public.  There  is  no  character  so  exalted  in  rank,  but  may  be  brought  to  trial  on  charges  of  misdemeanours;  and  this  advantage  should  outweigh,  even  in  the  opinion  of  the  alarmists,  any  inconvenience  which  the  I):-hi  or  YoaK  may  have  suffered  '  in  consequence  of  the  pznlicity  of  his  amours.  We  would  advise  them,  however,  not  to  let  the  idea  prey  too  much  on  1  their  feelings,  as  if  his  Ro!.11  Highness  sliffered  very  poig poignantly  nantly poignantly  from  the  disclosure  ;  for  we  are  very  much  mistaken  is  that  Illustrious  Personage,  if  he  k  not  as  completely  in indifferent  different indifferent  to  their  sympathy  as  he  is  to  our  strictures.  The  great  fault  in  his  character  is  not  excessive  delicacy  :  his  contempt  of  Mrs.  Clarke's  menaces,  his  conscientious  in indifference  difference indifference  to  the  claims  of  a  female  who,  for  four  years  was  the  object  of  his  dearest  atlections,  the  centre  of  all  his  happiness,  his  solace  amidst  the  anxiety  and  embarrass embarrassments  ments embarrassments  of  his  arduous  office,  leave  little  doubt  of  the  stoicism  of  his  princely  mind.  There  is  no  observation  so  supremely  true  as—that  no nothing  thing nothing  is  so  dangerous  as  an  imbecile  friend.  The  DUKE,  of  YORK  must  have  felt  the  full  force  of  this  remark  ;  for  his  pretended  advocates,  from  an  intemperate  wish  to  displzay  their  zeal  in  his  behalf;  have  represented  him  as  one  of  the  weakest,  silliest,  and  most  culpable  men  on  the  surface  .)f  our  globe.  Their  defence  reminds  us  of  the  bear  in  the  fabie,  and  his  au  kward,  clumsy  zeal  for  his  sleeping  friend..  Tht:y  also  knocked  out  the  DUKE'S  brains  (and  some  persons  insist  that  brains  are  a  very  useful  article  to  a  Commander  - STYLE=superscript  in  Chief)  when  they  re represented  presented represented  him,  for  four  years,  as  the  miserable  dupe  of  the  worst  of  women...  If  she  was  the  despicable  wretch,  the  insa  depict  her,  what  opinion  the  man,  who  sa sacrificed  crificed sacrificed  the  esteem  of  so  worthie  of  curious  specu speculation  lation speculation  before  the  Sena  red  by  Mr:  WAa-  MARCH  19  DIX.  To  be  convinced  of  an  impartial  decision  on  the  part  of  that  illustrious  body,  we  will  go  back  to  the  period  of  the  second  Punic  War;  and  consider  the  e:der  AFRICANUS  as  the  party  accused.  The  choice  is  rather  auk  ward,  we  acknowledge  ;  for  our  Readers  will  probably  recollect  au  adventure  of  that  hero  whilst  he  commanded  in  Spain,  which,  whatever  similarity  there  may  be  in  military  talents,  raises  some  doubt  whether  the  two  commanders  were  equally  sensible  to  the  fascinating  powers  of  beauty.  But  we  will  not  press  the  speculation  too  far  ;  and  will  confine  ourselves  to  the  observation,  that  if  this  supposed  occur occurrence  rence occurrence  had  taken  place,  even  on  the  anniverary  of  the  battle  of  Zama,  the  order  of  the  illustrious  Roman  to  his  Judges  to  follow  him  to  the  capitol,  in  order  to  return  thanks  to  the  Gods  for  that  memorable  event,  would  not  have  been  so  implicitly  obeyed.  We  will  now  close  our  strictures  on  this  subject  for  ever.  They  have  caused  us  some  paiu,  and  we  never  undertook  a  task  with  greater  reluctance.  But  every  motive,  which  could  influence  the  citizen  and  the  man,  forced  us  to  pur pursue  sue pursue  the  path  we  have  taken.  Great  energy  and  great  courage  are  requisite  in  the  pre present  sent present  crisis;  and  the  tendency  of  our  age,  in  direct  contra contradiction  diction contradiction  to  a  flippant  assertion  of  Mr.  CANNING  and  his  friends,  is  rather  to  flatter,  than  to  defame,  men  vested  with  power.  But  in  the  hour  of  danger,  should  it  ever  arrive,  it  will  be  then  seen  that  the  persons  who  arc  now  branded  wit  h  the  epithet  of  Jacobins,  will  display  as  much  ardour  in  the  defence  of  their  country,  and  perhaps  more,  than  those  very  mon  who  are  now  in  the  possession  of  its  highest  honours.  It  is  the  most  revolting  insolence,  as  well  as  the  most  danger dangerous  ous dangerous  abuse  of  authority,  to  accuse  individuals,  who  benefit  the  state  by  their  labours  and  talents,  of  disaffectionsto  the  establishment  ;  because  they  are  too  independent,  or  too  honest  to  bestow  indiscriminate  approbation  on  every  act  of  a  Minister.  The  impartiality  of  their  censnre  is  the  test  of  their  disinterestedness,  for  the  road  to  ministerial  favour  is  neither  freedom  of  judgment  nor  an  avowed  abhorrence  of  corruption.  But  there  is  a  reward  far  above  the  smile  of  a  Court  and  the  patronage  of  a  Minister;  and  that  re recompence  compence recompence  every  man  may  find  in  the  applause  of  his  own  conscience.  There  is,  besides,  in  some  bosoms  a  consum consuming  ing consuming  love  of  freedom,  an  intense  hatred  of  corruption  ;  their  loyalty  is  not  fashioned  nor  calculated  according  to  the  profits  it  may  produce;  they  love  their  country  pas passionately,  sionately, passionately,  and  detest  such  as  dishonour  it.  FOREIGN  INTELLIGENCE.  FROM  TILE  DUTCH  PAPERS.  ItfILLETIN  Or  Tyr  r  ARMY  OF  SPAIN.  44 STYLE=superscript  The  Duke  of  Dalmatia  arrived  at  Toy  on  the  10th  of  February.  The  whole  province  is  subdued.  He  collected  all  his  forces  in  order  to  cross  the  Minim  on  the  following  day.  lie  ♦vas  to  reach  Oporto  between  the  13th  and  20th,  and  Lisbon  between  the  20th  and  28th.  66 STYLE=superscript  The  English  have  embarked  at  Lisbon,.  in  order  to  abandon  Portugal.  The  rage  of  the  Portuguese  was  at  its  utmost  height,  and  every  day  considerable  and  bloody  con conflicts  flicts conflicts  between  the  Portuguese  and  English  took  place.  In  Gallicia  the  Duke  of  linchingen  had  completed  the  organiza organization  tion organization  of  the  province.  Admiral  :',lassaredo  is  arrived  at  Fer Ferro!,  ro!, Ferro!,  anti  has  begun  to  revive  the  labours  of  fiat  important  arsenal.  Peace  is  restored  in  all  the  provinces  under  the  command  of  the  Duke  of  Istria,  which  lie  between  the  Py Pyrenees,  renees, Pyrenees,  the  sea,  Portugal,  and  the  chain  of  mountains  which  cover  Madrid.  Security  follows  days  of  disorder  and  desolation.  Daily  deputations  repair  on  all  sides  to  the  King.,  at  Madrid.  Re-organization  and  public  spirit  are  quickly  springing  mp  under  the  new  Administration.  The  Duke  of  Beluno  has  marched  to  Badaios  ;  IR:  has  restored  to  peace  and  disarmed  the  whole  of  Lower  £strema.dura.  P2_TB00012 ,  •  atiable  harpy,•the  .  •  *re..  pleased  to  Ido  they  f  , STYLE=superscript  4  :  .  1..  .1  .  :  rtai  n  .  o  f  1  hono  -  •  •s-  -  s  to  40.  t  •,..Ivc  , STYLE=superscript  ..  '  ass  ,  :  ...  ,  ,  tier  ,  .  se  i  ,  ;  .  .  -  ra  il  1 STYLE=superscript  4  .  k  t  4  I  %  .  dui  1  (  •,  I  f  o&amp;  .  V.  .  7 STYLE=superscript  ,  i  '  '  \  s  i  ..  ~  ;.,  -  1 STYLE=superscript  1  ‘4l STYLE=superscript  o  I.' STYLE=superscript  /  %  4:'  P2_TB00013 ,  •  &#34;I'  P2_TB00014 i  P2_TB00015 l"
