text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  138  Boulogne.  these  maps  were  distributed  to  an  incredible  amount,  and  groups  of  French  soldiers  were  constantly  seen  poring  over  them,  and  enjoying,  in  anticipation,  the  spoils  and  plunder  of  the  metropolis  of  the  British  Em Empire.  pire. Empire.  To  give  this  project  a  greater  appearance  of  probabi probability,  lity, probability,  caricatures  and  songs  were  manufactured,  in  which  our  Volunteers  and  Militia,  even  soldiers,  were  not  repre represented  sented represented  in  the  most  advantageous  light;  but  the  battles  of  Vimiera  and  Corunna  have  furnished  them  with  a  more  exact  and  faithful  specimen  of  the  stuff  our  army  is  com composed.  posed. composed.  Since  then  they  also  do  us  the  honour  to  say,  that  the  British  are  the  o►t.lr/  soldier  they  ever  fought  against;  and  from  whom  they  have  met  any  thing  like  resistance.  This'opinion  has  obtained  among  them  extraordinary  cir circulation  culation circulation  of  late;  and  the  plunder  of  London,  as  a  reward  for  their  present  hardships  and  prisalions,  would  be  tingly  abandoned  for  the  reality  of  a  copious  dinner  and  a  good  bottle  of  wine.  FEB.  26.  lantly  watched  by  her  agents,  abandoned  by  Russia,  un unsupported  supported unsupported  and  unencouraged  by  a  single  friendly  State,  Austria  began  and  completed  her  military  armaments,  tilled  her  Ltrsenals  and  magazines,  replenished  her  coffers,  new  organised  her  army,  and  introduced  a  number  of  sa.  lutary  innovations,  in  a  civil,  as  well  as  military,  point  of  view;  and  her  governmen  I  executed  all  these  not notwithstandim:  withstandim: notwithstandim:  the  jealousy  and  significant  hints  of  the  ty tyrant  rant tyrant  as  to  their  inutility,  cold  inexpediency  in  - STYLE=superscript  the  present  exhausted  slate  of  her  iinutfees.  ;:the  procesqled  delA)e delA)e--rately  -rately delA)e--rately  and  resolutely,  notwithstanding  the  remonstrances  of  the  French  Ambassador  at  Vienna,  and  the  menacing  paragraphs  which  occasionally  appeared  in  the  .11onaeur,  to  the  accomplishment  of  this  great  work,  There  was  not  a  single  Prince  in  the  South  of  Germany  who  had  not  been  instructed  by  IioNAPARTE  to  send  orders  to  their  Ministers  at  Vienna,  to  demand  from  the  Austrian  Court  an  explanation  on  the  subject  of  her  arming  ;  and  the  in insolent  solent insolent  remonstrances  of  the  Bavarian  agent  are  said  to  hay  c  exceeded  every  hound.  A  ustria  continued,  however,  firm  ;  and  by  prakiitial  concessions,  iind  recalling.  her  Ambassador  from  our  Court,  succeeded  averring.  hosti hostility  lity hostility  on  the  part  of  France.  The  unexpected  occurrences  in  Spain  enabled  her  to  act  with  more  energy  and  spirit  :  and  she  seized  the  aulieions  opportunity  wiih  so  much  earnest  and  promptitude,  that  she  was  able  to  bring  to  inatnrity  the  great  plan  of  defence  the  Archduke  efixtu.vs  had  projected.  Ile  r  conduct,  on  the  ixcasion  of  the  insults  oirered  to  the  Poev,  when  prayers  we:e  otlered  up  in  ail  the  churches,  throughout  the  difie difierent  rent difierent  provinces,  for  the  safety  of  his  proves  that  she  was  not  insensible  to  the  effect  this  outrage  would  ha  vu  in  irritating  the  minds  of  her  inhabitants  against  France,  and  thus  facilitate  the  raising  of  the  Militia  and  /.erg  CU  Mane.  The  result  of  her  activity  and  prudence,  is  a  well welldisciplined,  disciplined, welldisciplined,  well  equipped,  and  well  supplied  Regular  Army  of  350,000  men,  besides  an  Army  of  Reserve  of  60.000  men,  a  body  of  Militia  amounting  already  to  near  '400,000,  exclusive  of  the  Hungarian  insurrection,  which  is  likewise  completed  and  armed':  It  was  necessary  to  take  this  view  of  the  present  military  resources  of  that  country,  to  be  able  to  appretiate  her  cha►►ces  of  CIeCeSS,  and  the  prudence  and  vigour  of  her  counc►ls.  Severely-bought  experience  has  taught,  her  wis wisdom  dom wisdom  ;  and  the  atrocities  committed  in  Spain  and  at  Hone„  anti  the  instructive  fate  of  the  Prussian  Monarchy,  must,  according  to  human  probability,  have  roused,  or  created,  great  ►natal  resources  in  the  breasts  of  her  numerous  popu population.  lation. population.  The  Archduke  CHARLES  possesses  in  a  supreme  degree,  unchecked  and  unfettered  by  court  intrigue,  all  that  influence  which  his  talents,  virtues,  and  serv►ces  entitlp  him  to.  There  is  only  one  will  and  one  object  ;  and  a  con conciliating  ciliating conciliating  policy  has  effaced  provincial  jealousies  and  dis,  tinctions  ;  and  the  Hungarian,  the  Gailician,  the  lioheinian,  the  Croatian,  and  Moravian,  vie  with  the  Austrian  in  at attachment  tachment attachment  and  devotion  to  the  common  Government  and  Sovereign.  Let  us  now  consider  how  France  is  prepared  to  resist  this  concentration  of  strength  and  will.  tier  whole  force,  with  the  exception  of  part  of  DA  vousT's  and  BER  NADOTTEN  corps,  and  a  body  of  troops  in  the  Bishoprick  of  Fulda,  under  the  command  of  General  OtioiNoT,  has  been  marched  into  Spain.  Her  army  in  Germany  we  may,  therefore,  es estimate  timate estimate  at  about  60,000  men,  exclusive  of  the  conscripts,  30,000  of  which  may  have  already  passed  the  Rhine.  must  be  remarked  that  - STYLE=superscript  nottiug  iA  more  obscure  than  the  French  military  conscription;  but  from  an  attentive  obser observation  vation observation  and  comparison  of  facts,  we  are  not  afraid  to  assert,  that  no  more  than  half  the  number,  which  BONAPARTE  ap applies  plies applies  for  to  the  Senate,  is  raised  by  that  mode.  We  risk,  therefore,  nothing  in  . STYLE=superscript  maintaining  - STYLE=superscript  that.  the  conscripts  of  this  year  and  of  1810,  when  called  out,  will  not  amount  to  more  than  80,000  at  most  ;  instead  of  160,000,  as  re required  quired required  in  the  Message.  Such,  at  the  highest  calculation,  is  the  effective  force  which  BONAPARTE  can  employ  imme immediately  diately immediately  against  Austria,  making  in'  all  an  army  of  120,000"
