text
"TIDE  NATIONAL  REGIgTE4.  tam,  for  au  instant,  the  delusive  idea,  that  BONAPARTE  would  renounce  his  pretensions,  or  stop  suddenly  shout  in  the  career  Of  his  conquests  and  crimes,  were  we  even  willing  to  Make  greater  sacrifices  than  the  most  unthinking  advocates  fors  negdtiation  would  consent  tb?  If  we  Would  purchase  a  truce  of  five  years  (a  peace  with  that  man  is  the  most  extravagant  idea  that  ever  entered  into  the  head  of  a  modern  visionary)-4e  must  make  a  radical  change  in  our  political  establishments.  Ask,  Sir,  Lord  WHITWORTH  and  the  Earl  of  LIVERPOOL  how  they  were  annoyed  with  com complaints  plaints complaints  and  rernonstranceS  about  the  licentiousness  of  our  press;  and  pretty  broad  hints  were  thrown  out  by  BONA BONAPARTE,  PARTE, BONAPARTE,  after  the  peace  of  Amiens  . STYLE=superscript  ,  that  the  simplifying  of  our  Constitution,  or  rendering  it  purely  monarchial,  with without  out without  the  troublesome  appendages  of  parliaments,  ivies,  and  free  press,  would  be  more  consistent  with  the  tran tranquillity  quillity tranquillity  and  the  present  liberal  ideas  of  Europe.  Ite  has  not  renounced  the  idea  of  conferring  that  blessing  on  us  still;  for,  since  the  breaking  out  of  the  present  war,  he  has  frequently  alluded  to  the  impossibility  of  a  durable  peace,  as  long  as  Great  Britain  laboured  under  the  imper imperfections  fections imperfections  of  its  present  oligarchial  system,  We  have  al already  ready already  had  a  specimen  of  a  Peace  with  BONAPARTE  !  and  the  first  use  he  Made  Of  it,  was  to  fall  on  the  defenceless  Swiss,  to  destroy  every  vestige  of  their  liberty  ;  and,  in  perfect  violation  of  the  solemn  engagements  he  had  en entered  tered entered  into  in  this  very  Treaty  of  Amiens,  to  usurp  several  States  in  Italy.  Yes,  Sir,  he  would  willingly  make  another  pease  of  that  kind,  in  order  to  employ  the  interval  of  re repose  pose repose  in  constructing  ships  in  all  the  dock-yards  of  Europe.  There  is  something.  more  suspicious  than  folly  in  every  pro proposal  posal proposal  to  confide  in  the  morality  and  honour  of  BoNAPIRTE.  The  monster  !  confidence  in  his  integrity  Is  followed  by  the  inevitable  deltruction  of  the  good-natured,  unsuspect unsuspecting  ing unsuspecting  simpleton,  who,  in  defiance  of  fourteen  years  of  aw awful,  ful, awful,  impressive  experience,  is  mad  enough  to  trust  the  pro professions  fessions professions  of  a  shatper,  and  the  humanity  of  a  murderer.  CIVIs.  FOREIGN  INTELLIGENCE.  PROM  THE  FRENCH  PAPERS.  TWENTY4IrTH  BULLETIN  OF  THE  ARMY  OF  SPA  IN.  'f  ~,  t.  formed  that  the  English  ittny•Was  reduced  m  less  than  4 STYLE=superscript  2o,ooo  Lunn  resolved  upon  moving  his  head-quarters  from  Astorga  to  Ilene Ilenev.eote.  v.eote. Ilenev.eote.  .Iye  found  in  tke  barns  sevetal  English  %t  ltd  had  been  hanged  by  lair  gPaniaids,  His  -STaysTfUtlit.izkiig.aiant  and  Ortlklitti  the  barns  to  be  burnt—The  peasants,  whalever  may  be  their  re reentutent,  entutent, reentutent,  have  no  right  to  attempt  the  liven  of  ti*  waggoners  ?f  either  army.  Nil  .11Iskjesty  has  ordered  the  Eiiglish  prismiert  to  he  treated  with  all  the  respect  due  to  soldiers  who  hale  latintrested  liberal  ideas,  and  sentiments  of  honour.  On  the  4th,  tit  night,  the  Duke  of  Dalmatia's  head-quarters  were  ten  leagues  fro  ft  'Lugo.  Governor  De  St.  Cyr's  division  entered  Barcelooa  on  the  17th.  On  the  15th,  he  came  up  with  Generals  Itedinks  and  wives's  troops  at  Lieias,  and  conipletelv  routed  theca.  lie  took  slx  pieces  of  cannon,  JO  waggons,  and  :3000  Lien.  TWENTY-SIXTII  BULLETIN  dF  THIS  ARMY  Of!  SPAIN.  VALt.ADOLItI,  JAlret  t.--,ltel'  General  GOzion  de  St.  Or  entered  Barielonai  he  Proceeded  to  the  Lobregat,  and  forced  the  enemy's  intrenChed  camp,  and  took  V,..5  13ieces  biCohnoti.  lie  then  took  Tarrapida,  a  place  of  great  importance.  •  TWENTY-SEVENTH  BULLETIN  OF  THIS  ARMY  OF  SPAIN.  •  V  4  LLA  nottn,  JAY.  9:—The  Duke  of  Dalmatia;  after  the  battle  of  Prievass,  proceeded  to  expel  the  English  from  the  post  of  Piedra  Fallst.  lie  there  took  1500  English  prisoners,  five  pieces  of  cannon  ;  and  several  caissdas.  The  enemy  was  obliged  to  destroy  a  quantity  of  baggage  and  stores.  The  precipices  were  filled  with  them.  Such  was  their  precipitate  flight  and  confusion,  that  the  division  of  Sorge  and  Lahoussaye,  found  among  the  deserted  baggage,  waggons,  tilled  with  gold  and  site  ver  t  it  was  'Sart  of  the  treasure  ef  the  Unglish  army.  The  property  fallen  into  our  hands  is  etaimated.at  two  millions.  Since  our  departdre  from  Benevente  up  to  the  sth.  ialita  we  counted  on  the  road  1800  English  horses,  that  had,  begs  F  i!!1,1  The  remains  of  Romana's  army  are  found  wandering  aboSt  all  directions,  The  retdains  of  the  army  of  Mayorea,  of  Met=  nia,  of  Barcelona,  and  of  Naples,  are  made  prisontis.  The  Spanish  peasantry  of  Galicia  and  Leon,  have  no  me?ey  on  the  English.  Notwithstanding  the  strictest  orders  10  the  contrary  wt  every'  day  find  a  itualet  of  the  Ling`ibh  assassinated.  The  Duke  of  Belluno  is  on.  the  fragus.  - STYLE=superscript  The  !whole  of.  the  Imperial  Guard  is  concentrated  at  Valladolid,.  The  cities  9f  Valladolid,  of  Palencia,  Segovia,  Avilia,Astorgas  Leoni.l4.  have  sent  numerous  Deputations  to  the  King.  rI  The  city  of  Madrid  has  particularly  distinguished  .  ;  itself  pip.  28,500  heeds  of  families  have  taken  the  va.th  of  allegiance  upon  the  holy  Sacrament.  The  citizens  have  proiniwd  his  bia.  perial  Majesty  that  if  he  *ill  plate  his  brother  up  the  throne,  they  will  serve  hit*  with  ail  their  efforts,  aka  defend  him  •  ith  all  their  means.  ."
