text
"CEP.  riFICATES-APRIL  15.  Thomas  'Waghorn,  Rumford,  Essex,  draper--John  Brown,  Little  Est  Cheap,  rheesemonger—Ed  ward  Craven,  Clayton  le  Weedy,  Laacaabire,  cotton  and  must.  a-manufacturer-3  ohn  Mac  auley,  Patrick  Wh)toct,  and  John  Duncan,  Liverpool,  mer merchants—Ebenezer  chants—Ebenezer merchants—Ebenezer  Earnsby,  Atherstune,  Warwickshire,  linen linendraper—.lr  draper—.lr linendraper—.lr  hn  Wnol  f,  Liverpool,  merchant—John  Thomas,  31tancisester,  cotton-spinner—Thomas  Fraser,  Wells-street,  Nary-le-bone,  coach-spring-manufacturer.  The  Papers  laid  before  the  House  of  Commons  relating  to  the  Expeditions  to  Spain  and  Portugal  have  been  printed.  —They  occupy  90  folio  pages,  embracing  109  official  letters,  all  of  which,  except  13,  ale  from  Lord  Castlereagh.  These  papers  are  Witted  Copies  of  or  Extracts  from,  the  instruc instructions  tions instructions  to  the  Commanders,  or  other  officers  of  his  Majesty's  forces  in  Spain  and  Portugal,  in  the  year  hillt  ;  together  wtth  such  Communications  as  h•tve  been  received  from  the  said  Command Commanders,  ers, Commanders,  or  other  officers,  re:ati►ag  to  the  execution  of  the  said  in instructions,  structions, instructions,  so  fir  as  the  same  may  not  be  attended  with  public  The  papers  are  very  numerou‘,  but  there  are  no  letters  from  Sir  eitihn  Moore,  or  Sir  David  Baird,  in  the  col collection,  lection, collection,  the  whole  of  which  is  now  very  interesting.  Lott  Don,  SUNDAY.  MAIICII  26,  1809.  POLITICAL  EVENTS  OF  THE  WEEK.  -.......-  RESIGNATION  OF  THE  DUKE  OF  YORK.  The  investigation  of  the  I)uKE  of  YORK'S  conduct,  as  Corn.  minder  in  Chief,  is  at  last  suspended.  At  the  end  of  this  pro protracted  tracted protracted  and  laborious  Inquiry,  his  Royal  Highness  according  to  the  dcciqion  of  the  House  stands  acquitted  of  corrupt  participa participation  tion participation  in  the  profits  of  Mrs.  CLARKE  ;  and  the  subject  of  his  dis disqualification  qualification disqualification  has  been  evaded  by  his  voluntary  resignation.  The  CHANCELLOR  of  the  EXCHEQUER,  communicated  it,  on  Monday  last,  to  the  House  of  Commons.  lie  expressed  at  the  same  time  a  hope,  that  this  voluntary  act  of  the  late  Com Commander  mander Commander  in  Chief  would  prevent  any  further  proceedings  in  the  case.  Mr.  BATHURST,  however,  refused  to  withdraw  his"
