text
"THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  con.:uct  of  tlie  Royal  Duke.  It  would  appcar  that  a  Alt%  Clinr Clinrman,  man, Clinrman,  vi  ho  was  private  Secretar  to  a  Noble  Lord  now  in  office,  was  employed  to  ne  i  ,ociate  an  annuity  with  his  Royal  highness  the  Duke  of  York,  who  was•to  have  the  sutn  of  70.0001.  ad advanced  vanced advanced  for  tijat  purpose  to  him;  that  the  immediate  sent  was  a  permin  of  the  name  of  Kennett,  a  man  who  had  been  twice  a  bankrupt;  that  the  terms  of  the  annuity  were  to  grant  it  at  the  rate  of  10  per  cent.  ;  that  to  save  insurance,  two  lives  were  to  be  nominated,  but  that  his  Royal  Iligline3sshould  have  the  power  of  re-purchase  at  the  expiration  of  three  years,  giving  the  usual  notice,  or  paving  a  quarter's  annuity  in  advance.  it  will  appear  that  the  negociation  went  on  (Jr  sometime,  and  that  there  was  a  concurrent  negociaiion  for  Mr.  Kennett,  to  provide  him  with  a  situation  under  Government.  Mr.  Archibald  Dud  was  then  interrogated  by  Lord  FOLK  sToN  E.—lie  stated,  that  he  Was  a  solicitor  to  Ketmett's  second  bankruptcy  ;  that  it  took  place  in  the  Near  l'SO3  ;  that  in  his  capacity  of  solicitor  he  got  possession  of  these  papers,  which  he  then  produced.  Interrogated  by  , STYLE=superscript  Mr..  WiLso:s.—Q.  What  was  'Keunett?  A.  An  upholsterer  it)  Bond-street;  and  a  tooth-ache-curer  in  the  neig!iltouraooll  of  Lincoln's  Inn.—Q.  DO  he  pass  his.examina his.examination  tion his.examination  as  a  bankrupt.?  A.  Yes,  after  numerous  meeting.—Q.  Dirt  he  °main  hi-.  certikate.?  A.  No.—Q.  W  hat  became  of  hint  ?  A.  1  don't  exactly  know,  1  saw  htmabout  a  month  Did  any  thing  particular  occur  to  him  since  143  bankruptcy  ?  A.  )le  was  prosecuted  by  °pier  of  the  Lord  Chancellor,  by  the-At the-Attorney  torney the-Attorney  General,  fora  conspiracy  respectintr  his  bankruptcy,  he  was  convicted  and  sentenced  to  imprisonment,  and  to  stand  in.the  pillory,  which  sentence  was  executed.  The  number  of  letters  and  papers  delivered  in  was  21  in  all.  '  The  first  was  a  paper  in  the'inind-writing  of  Kennett.  This  was  the  draft  of  the  proposals  sent  to  the  Duke  of  York  for  ad ad♦ancing  ♦ancing ad♦ancing  70,0001.  This  ser►es  of  correspondence  is  completely  unimportant.  The  Duke  of  York  never  obta•ned  the  proposed  loan.  Mr.  Pitt  refused  to  give  any  kind  of  promotion  to  time  party  applying  ;  and  Kennet,  who  designed  nothiog  so  much  as  to  take  in  all  parties,  was  duteously  detected  and  exposed.  Lieut.  Col.  Taylor  interrogated  by  Cal.  WARDLE.—Q  The  Witile6S  is  desired  to  state  what  he  knows  of  this  trans•tction.  A.  He  received  a  note  from  Kennett,  signifying  that  he  had  something  to  communicate  which  would  he  advantageous  to  the  Duke  of  York,  and  desiring  an  interview  ;  in  which  he  men mentioned,  tioned, mentioned,  that  he  could  procure  a  loan  of  30,0001.  or  10,0001.  for  his  Royal  Highness;  that  was  all  that  passed  time  first  day  I  saw  him,  and  this  I  communicated  to  the  Mike.  Th^  witness  then  stated,  that,  by  order  of  the  Duke,  Kennett  was  referred  to  Mr.  Adam.  That  the  loan  was  first  proposed  ;  that  the  negotiation  for  the  place  was  subsequent  to  the  proposal  for  the  town  Tile  loan  was  not  completed,  as  far  as  he  knew,  hut  he  was  not  in  the  habit  of  conducting  any  money  transactions  for  his  Roy  al  Highness.  That  Kennett  had  called  on  him  several  times  t  that  lie  at  last  complained  of  delays  that  prevailed,  and  said,  that  he  believed  the  Duke  was  become  i  u  ditl•erent  about  the  loan,.as  he  was  so  often  tout  off  about  it.---Q.  «'  hat  does  witness  i.oow  re respecting  specting respecting  the  steps  taken  to  procure  a  place  for  Kennett  ?  A.  think,  to  the  best  of  my  recollection,  Sir  Horace  Mann  wrote  to  Air.  Long  in  his  favour,  which  letter  was  forwarded  to  Mr.  Long.---Q.  Was  Kennett's  letter  to  Lieut.-Colonel  Taylor  shewn  by  him  to  the  Duke  ?  A.  I  certainly  think  time  substance  of  it  was.---Q.  Did  Kennett  ever  get  a  place  in  consequence  of  these  his  several  applications  ?  A.  1  rather  think  that  he  did  not.  ••  -  ••  .G.;•••.411111  .  6••  ..•  •  ••••••...*:.  •119  •  voa  ,a-ke  eiv;rat  •••e  r  ;•r-ft  t,.  iding  the  transaction  you  have  related  ?  A..  I  did  not;  he  was  known  to  me  only  in  consequence  of  toe  recommendationbf  Sir  Horace  Mann.---Q.  Did  you  learn  any  thing  of  flint  there?  A.  tor.  Kennett  had  come  to  the  /torso  Guards  thtee  or  four  times,  and  in  the  course  of  one  Of  these  visits,  a  Gentleman  asked  me  whether  I  knew  him  ?  answered  no,  but  that  he  was  recom recommended  mended recommended  to  me  by  Sir  Horace  Mann.  The  Gentleman  then  toll  me  that  he  had  been  a  stock-broker  and  failed,  and  that  some  •  circumstances  were  connected  with  his  failure  which  were  not  to  his  credit,  and  •he  therefore  cautioned  me  against  Did  you  communicate  this  to  the  Duke  of  York  ?  A.  I  did---Q.  What  passed  in  consequence?  A.  His  Royal  Highness  ordered  me  to  drop  all  further  applications  in  his  favour.  •  •  6.  Mr.  W  lavt.r.  produced  the  letters  which  - STYLE=superscript  he  had  taken  from  Mrs.  Clarke,  purporting  to  be  recoinmendatory  letters  of  Subal-  •  tern  ()dicers  for  promotion.  -  .  •  Mr.  Apa  MS  said,  that  as  he  did  not  understand  the  circumstan circumstances  ces circumstances  of  the  annuity  which  was  granted  to  Mrs.  Clarke,  he  •Wished  to  ask  a  few  questions  respecting  it,  of  an  Hon.  and  Learned  Member  (Mr.  Adam.)—Q.  Was  you  consulted  whether  the  an annuity  nuity annuity  should  or  should  not  continue  to  be  paid?  A.  I  did  not  know  of  its  having  ceased  to  be  paid.—Q.  Then  I  am  to  under understand  stand understand  that  you  did  not  advise  that  it  should  not  he  paid  ?  A.  Certainly  I  did  not.—Q.  Was  it  knoivir  to  you  that  the  Duke  of  York  refused  ta  pay  it?  A.  I  know  it  in  no  other  way  but  by  the  communication  I  had  with  the  Duke  of  York,  at  the  time  I  received  the  letters  from  Mrs.  Clarke,  widen  are  now  upon  the  table.—Q.  Do  you  know  this  reason  af  his  Roval  Highnef*:s  re refusal  fusal refusal  to  pay  it  ?  A.  I  do  not  know  the  specific  facts  whictreausell  the  discontinuance  of  payment,  tint  1  know  in  general  that  the  annuity  was  discontinued  from  au  impression  on  his  Royal  High-  •  ness's  mind,  that  the  conduct  of  Mrs.  Clarke  was  not  such  as  to  fall  within  the  condition  on  which  the  annuity  was  emoted.  I  - STYLE=superscript  beg  Gentlemen  not  to  misunderstand  me  as  on  a  former  evening.  That  part  of  his  Royal  Highness's  income  which  he  appropriates  to  the  support  of  his  family,  and  improvement  of  his  estate,  is  not  '  within  the  province  of  my  trust  or  knowledge.  That  part  of  his  income  whereof  I  have  the  management,  is  the  sunk  whith.  his  Royal  highness  allots  annually  to  pay  the  interest  of,'  and  liqui liquidate  date liquidate  the  principal  of  his  debts.  •  •  Mrs.  Clarke  was  then  examined.  by  Mr.  LocKnaft.T.---Q.  Look  at  these  letters,  and  state-  whether  they  are  thelettera  .•  hich  you  had  from  Mr.  Donovan,  and  svhich  you  said  yoa  de-  •  livered  to  Alr.  Wardle  to  facilitate  a  negociatioai  A.  Yes,  -  these  are  all  the  letters.—Q.  When  did  you  deliver  them  to  Mr.  Wardle?  A.  Soon  after  I  receised  them.  froatiMr.  Donovan?  ---Q.  When  did  you  receive  them  from  Mr.  Donovan  A.  I  •  don't  recollect.  —Q  .  They  are  all.  dated  n  (het  beginning  of  WS,  -  had  you  them  from  that  time  till  lots  gavu.them  to  iilr.  Wardle?  A.  I  can't  e  ‘actir  sag  .--Q.  Those  letters  purport  to  be  certili certilicates  cates certilicates  of  Field  ()dicers,  did  you  give  tam  to  Field  Otheers,  - STYLE=superscript  or  Members  a  Parfiament,  as  additional  rceommendations,  wait-  •  out  your  knowing.  whose  recommendation  Lae.  first  were?  A.  Donovan  told  me  that  they  were  all  correct,  and  General  Cla66  vering,  to  whom  I  gave  one  of  them,  took  the  precaution  of  en enquiring  quiring enquiring  at  Mr.  Greenwood's  office,  and  seeing  th..t  it  was  right.  .  By  Mr.  linsmssoN.---Q,  Why  did  you  give  the  letterr+  to  Mr.  Wardle  to  facilitate  the  fic  , STYLE=superscript  ociatioa?  A.  Mr...Wardle  told  •  me  that  he  would  get  theta  signed  by  Nieimbera.of  which  would  facilitate  the  -promotion  of  the  officers.  ---Q.  Did-  Mr.  Wardle  tell  You  so  ?  Ye*,  and  that  he  *auld  at  plish  it  ;  but  I  dare  sayhe  never  tried  it,  Out  wanted  ~nay  to  get  the  letters,  and  to  discover  the  secrets  of  Donovan  anti  myself.  Mr..  Lot:  k  AAT  then  asked  Mr.  Wardle  whether  he  had,  di-,  rectly  or  imiireetiy,  promised  to  facilitate  the.tiegociation  afar  Mrs.  'Clarke  ?  A.  I.  did  not;  but  as  I  was  anxious  to  get  posses possession  sion possession  of  the  letters,  I  might  have  used  language  and  geStutetashi..k.  induced  her  to  think  I  promised.  r  ;  .  .  ,  ...  •  Tr  r.w  ~'  .  ..t  •  SUPPRESSioII  Mr.  !Inners  AI.  Oiled  the  attention  or  ttbe  Ctinnislitee.  to  nu  important  fact  that  had  tome  to  his  knnwledgeaeo  days  ttgor  . STYLE=superscript  '  Nether  he  ought  or  ought  not'to  have  withbeldit  salting,  the  fault  he  acknowledged,  if  there  wasitny,  was  - STYLE=superscript  it  - STYLE=superscript  Wry  tti,  fur  •  qv'  his  Royal  Highness  had  left  hitn.at  perfect  liberty  to  take  his  own  •  •  time,  and  to  exercise  his  :own  discretion,  In  tottking  trite  Comets Cometsnication.  nication. Cometsnication.  It  related  to  the  care  of  Mitjortonya,  who  tatt  tree  stated  to  have  lodgettthe  s(ipulated  sum  of  meat.)  in  Mr.  Duna..  van's  hands  till  he  should  be  Gazetted.  It  would  1)e  recollected  •  that  Captain  Sandon  had  suited  in  evidence,  that  •Plinjoe  Tony*  •  became  impatie'llt,  and  expret9ed  a  that.  the  money  should  be  withdrawn  on  account  of  the  deluyeoftlit  ibritnietiati.  •  tape  tans  Iluzley  &amp;union  was  ou  this  occasion  introduced  to  him,  t  _;.&lt;;_  .  ;  • STYLE=superscript  't"
