text
"SIR  R.  ABERCROMBIE'S  MONUMENT,  ERECTED  IN  Sr.  PAUL'S  CATHEDRAL,  Sculptured  by  IVEsrmicorr,  and  now  beautifully  engraved  by  WooLNOTII  I  will  be  delivered  G  RATIS  On  SUNDAY,  MARCH  26,  to  every  SUBSCRIBER  and  PURCHASER  of  THE  w  rATIO.VAL  REGISTER.  The  Choice  and  First  Impressions  of  the  Plate  to  be  preserved  for  Subscribers.  It  will  be  printed  on  the  FINEST  COPPER COPPERPLATE  PLATE COPPERPLATE  PAPER,  SO  as  admit  EVEN  OF  BEING  FRAMED,  and  placed  in  a  situation  where  the  Valour  and  Prowess  of  that  Im Immortal  mortal Immortal  Commander  may  be  always  introduced  to  the  Recollec Recollection  tion Recollection  of  his  admiring  Country.  THE  NATIONAL  REGISTER.  Lon  Don,  SUNDAY,  MARCII  12,  1809.  POLITICAL  EVENTS  OF  Till  WSEK.  It  is  not  our  intention  at  present  to  comment  on  the  De Debates  bates Debates  in  the  House  of  Commons,  they  speak  sufficently  for  themselves  they  appeal  vehemently  to  the  feelings  of  every  man,  who  takes  an  interest  in  the  tranquillity  and  honour  of  his  country.  We  have  given  it  as  our  invaria invariable  ble invariable  opinion,  that  the  Commons  would  act,  in  this  unpre unprecedented  cedented unprecedented  business,  with  a  dignity  and  independence,  which  will  convince  the  world,  that  their  duty  as  Representatives  of  the  British  Nation,  is  paramount  to  every  other  consi consideration.  deration. consideration.  So  far  from  perceiving  as  yet  any  reason  to  vary  in  this  opinion,  we  solemnly  declare  that  we  believe  that  no  confront,  were  it  even  incautiously  attempted,  would  his:o  their  decision  in  this  momentous  business.  The  Public,  in  this  great  crisis,  look  up  with  painfJl  anxiety  to  their  Representatives.  Their  decision  will  have  an  effect  on  the  future  happiness  of  the  nation  ,  which  it  would  be  almost  hazardous  to  calculate.  We  will  venture  no  opinion  on  the  delinquency,  or  innocence  of  the  ac accused;  cused; accused;  but  he  has  unquestionably  given  proofs  of  weakness,  folly  and  immorality,  which  disqualify  him,  in  the  opinion  of  many,  for  the  important  office  he  now  fills.  The  eyes  of  all  Europe  are  fixed  on  this  investigation.  The  enemy  attend  to  the  proceedings  with  the  most  malicious  cxul cxultation.  tation. cxultation.  They  comment  on  the  gross  abuses,  which  have  been  discovered  during  the  proceedings;  and  their  com comments  ments comments  have  suffused  our  cheeks  with  blushes,  and  filled  our  heart  with  sorrow  and  indignation.  But  we  trust  the  termination  of  this  business  will  make  their  triumph  a  short  lived  one.  It  is  only  our  baseness  which  can  gratify  them  ;  our  servility  afford  them  pleasure.  It  is  said  that  the  accused  manifests  a  sovereign  indiffer indifference  ence indifference  for  the  incanlious  comments  of  the  Public,  and  walks  about  the  streets  of  the  metropolis,  with  a  confidence  and  ease,  which  are  frequently  the  companions  of  conscious  .  innocence,  and  as  often  the  attributes  of  a  character  which  sets  praise  and  blame,  surmises  and  insinuation,  at  defiance.  e  cannot  say,  on  the  occasion,  that  we  envy  him  his  feelings,  but  we  cannot  but  admire  the  consistency  of  cha•  racter  he  maintains  till  the  last."
